Better blonde or brunette?
Better blonde or brunette?

Celebs with restless hair syndrome.

FoxNews.com

http://www.foxnews.com/

Candace Cameron Bure: Better blonde The "Fuller House" star changed her blonde hair to brunette. While we think the actress looks amazing with her darker locks, we prefer her with a lighter hue. Click here for more pics of Bure's new look (Getty/Reuters) candace-cameron-bure:-better-blonde

Kylie Jenner: Better brunette From plumped up lips to her racy style, the youngest Jenner child is known for constantly changing her look. Now the reality showed off her newly blonde locks for New York Fashion week. She should go back to being a brunette. Click here for more pics of the star on X17online.com (X17) kylie-jenner:-better-brunette

Sophie Turner: Better with red "Game of Thrones" star Sophie Turner turned heads when she stepped out as a platinum blonde -- and not in a good way. While Turner went from being a redhead to a blonde, she still makes this list for drastically changing her locks from one color to another. Please go back to your red hair Sophie! Click here for more pictures of the actress on X17online.com (X17) sophie-turner:-better-with-red

Anna Paquin: Better blonde The "True Blood" star sported a darker hue while attending an event with her husband and former co-star Stephen Moyer. The typically blonde actress looked very different with brown hair. The dark color is harsh against her skin tone. Click here for more pictures of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Reuters/Getty) anna-paquin:-better-blonde

Kim Kardashian Kanye West now has a platinum wife to go with his platinum albums. But we still think she looks better with her naturally-darker hair. Go to X17Online.com for more pics of Kim blonde, and brunette. (X17Online.com) kim-kardashian

January Jones: Better blonde Remember when the former "Mad Men" star went brunette? Thank goodness Jones' darker do was short lived; she looks much better as a blonde. Click here for more pictures of the actress on X17online.com (Reuters/X17) january-jones:-better-blonde

Justin Bieber: Better brunette The Biebs has gone blond and we don't like it. Justin seemed to be trying out a new bleached look when he ditched his brown locks. Do you prefer Bieber as a blond? Click here for more pictures of the singer on X17online.com (X17/Reuters) justin-bieber:-better-brunette

Sarah Hyland: Better brunette The "Modern Family" actress looks like a different person with her new blond do. "They say blonde's have more fun. Let's see how this goes," Hyland wrote on Instagram. We think the baby-faced star looks better as a brunette. Click here for more pictures of the actress. (Reuters/Instagram) sarah-hyland:-better-brunette

Renee Zellweger: Better blonde The dooey skinned actress looks much better with lighter hair, and makeup. (Reuters) renee-zellweger:-better-blonde

Reese Witherspoon: Better Blonde The Oscar winner has sometimes sported a much darker 'do. It definitely strips her of that innocent southern charm (or that could be her arrest). Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com (X17online/Reuters) reese-witherspoon:-better-blonde

Holly Madison: Better blonde With personal hair stylists, it's not hard for celebs to experiment with hair color more often than the average gal. But sometimes, no matter how beautiful the star, they shouldn't stray from their natural roots. Holly Madison posed for Life & Style magazine showing off her massive closet - and her new brown locks. Click for more pics of Holly on LifeandStylemag.com. (Reuters/L&S) holly-madison:-better-blonde

Scarlett Johansson: Better blonde Scarlett Johansson is one of those rare creatures who can pull off platinum blonde as well as rich brunette. We chose blonde as the winning shade for this siren because it gives her that 40's pin-up girl appeal that so few actresses have anymore. (AP ) scarlett-johansson:-better-blonde

Mary-Kate Olsen: Better blonde While darker hair made it easier to distinguish Mary-Kate from her twin sis Ashley, blonde hair is definitely a better fit for the tiny twin. (AP ) mary-kate-olsen:-better-blonde

Lindsay Lohan: Better brunette Linsday Lohan seems to suffer from Restless Hair Syndrome and changes her hair color as often as most people change their socks. One shade the troubled actress should shelve for good is the platinum blonde, which ages her about 10 years. Dark shades, like her natural auburn red, or rich browns, are much more flattering with her complexion. (AP) lindsay-lohan:-better-brunette

Katy Perry: Better brunette At the premiere of "The Smurfs," Smurfette's voice and pop singer Katy Perry showed off a new look with cropped strawberry blonde locks. The singer, known for her sexy pinup, jet-black hair looked excited to show off her new lighter 'do, which was actually a return to her natural hair color. But the jury is out on whether fans will embrace Perry's drastic change. We like her better with a darker style, but Katy looks great both ways. (Reuters) katy-perry:-better-brunette

Jennifer Lawrence: Better blonde The "Silver Linings Playbook" star looks like quite the California girl when she's sporting golden locks. (Reuters) jennifer-lawrence:-better-blonde

Hilary Duff: Better blonde Life as an edgy Brunette just didn't suit the adorable Hilary Duff. Blonde hair works much better with her signature sunny disposition. (AP ) hilary-duff:-better-blonde

Fergie: Better blonde Fergie has sported some crazy hairdos over the years. The darker shade definitely looks nice, but blonde locks definitely look better against the singer's bronzed complexion. (AP ) fergie:-better-blonde

Cameron Diaz: Better blonde While dark hair made her eyes ridiculously striking, Cameron Diaz will always be the eternal blonde, California gal and any other shade is just...wrong. (AP) cameron-diaz:-better-blonde