Texas cop-killer had long criminal history including assault, reports say
The man accused of fatally shooting a Texas police officer and triggering a standoff that lasted more than 6 hours had a criminal history dating back more than 15 years, according to reports.

Sources close to the investigation into the shooting of Little Elm Det. Jerry Walker on Tuesday identified the gunman as Rudy Joseph Garcia, FOX4 reported. The 46-year-old convicted felon was found dead inside his home.

According to FOX4, Garcia’s criminal history started in 2002 and included arrests for DWI, evading arrest, assault and family violence.

MAN SUSPECTED OF KILLING TEXAS POLICE OFFICER IS DEAD AFTER 6-HOUR STANDOFF

Antonio Sutton, a neighbor who witnessed the shooting on Tuesday, recalled that police had been called to Garcia’s home several times in the past. He added that he had several confrontations with the accused as well.

“He came out of his garage, out of his territory and walked up on me. And at that point, I just proceeded to walk away. I didn’t get into a verbal spat with him or anything,” Sutton told FOX4. “Had I attacked him, who knows? He could’ve come here with that same rifle.”

Expand / Contract Little Elm Det. Jerry Walker. (FOX4)

The investigation into the shooting is still ongoing; however details leading up to the shooting are quite clear.

Walker, an 18-year veteran of the department, responded with other officers to a report of a man outside a home armed with a rifle. As they approached the home, officers asked Garcia to drop his weapon, who instead shot at them from behind a fence before barricading himself inside.

“I was actually on the scene, I was less than 50 yards away. I saw Det. Walker get shot,” Police Chief Rodney Harrison said during an afternoon press conference on Wednesday.

CHICAGO OFFICER CHARGED WITH MURDER IN FATAL SHOOTING OF UNARMED MAN

He said he was talking to Walker on police radios just before co-worker was hit.

“Moments later, Detective Walker responded to me, ‘I think that he's shooting at us,’ and then a hail of gunfire that came from inside the residence at the direction of Detective Walker and our patrol officer,” Harrison said. “Detective Walker fell to the ground and our patrol officer on scene immediately returned fire inside the house.”

The standoff ensued.

According to FOX4, police learned an elderly woman was inside the house. Denton County Sheriff’s deputies were able to get her out through the rear of the house.

WATCH: OFFICER CARRIES ELDERLY WOMAN TO SAFETY WHEN TRUCK BURSTS INTO FLAMES

This allowed police to deploy a robot, which was used to discover Garcia dead inside the house. It's still unclear how Garcia died.

Walker, who was promoted to detective in 2013, leaves behind four children, including a child who was just a few months old.

The “Jerry Walker Fund” has been set up at a local Capital One Bank branch. Those wishing to contribute can contact Theresa Rocha, 2821 E. Eldorado Pkwy., Little Elm. (214) 544-4832.