Mexico Agrees to Pay for New Partition in White House Bathroom
MEXICO CITY, Mex. – The Mexican government says it has reached an agreement with the incoming Trump administration to cover the costs of a new partition that will be placed between two urinals in a staff restroom near the Oval Office.

“Trump will have his wall and Mexico will pay for it,” declared Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto during a press conference at the National Palace in Mexico City on Friday. The powder coated steel partition will set Mexico back by an estimated 2,617.20 pesos – the equivalent of about $120 – and will allow the new Commander-in-Chief to use the White House restroom without fear of his male colleagues catching a glimpse of his “whatever” parts.

President Nieto said the Trump administration had initially insisted on a diamond studded twenty-four carat gold bathroom partition similar to what the President-elect has in the master bathroom of his opulent Manhattan penthouse. Nieto said administration officials sought to make the Mexican government aware that the dividing wall’s price-tag of $1.8 million represented “a small fraction of the cost” of the wall which Trump has vowed to build between the U.S. and Mexico.

According to sources in both the U.S. and Mexico, negotiations over the White House restroom’s partition began shortly after President-elect Trump’s controversial visit to Mexico back in August of 2016. “When it became clear that Mexico wasn’t going to pay for the border wall, the attitude became, ‘Well, if we can’t make them pay for the wall, we’re going to make them pay for a wall,” a senior Trump adviser with firsthand knowledge of the negotiations told The Washington Post.

With President-elect Trump’s inauguration less than eight days away, the announcement by Mexico that it will foot the bill for the White House bathroom partition is being viewed by many in Washington as an olive branch offered by President Enrique Peña Nieto at a time when diplomatic relations between the United States and other nations have become increasingly tense.