Russia: Assad Only Bombing Hospitals that Refuse Health Insurance
ALEPPO, Sy. – Rescuers continued to comb through the rubble in search of survivors on Tuesday after at least seven people were killed in an airstrike targeting the M10, a civilian hospital in eastern Aleppo, the day before. Monday’s bombing marked the third time in less than a week that the M10 hospital has been targeted in a government airstrike.

Russia’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Vitaly Churkin, said the bombing is part of an ongoing campaign to wipe out hospitals and other medical facilities that refuse to accept health insurance. “The Syrian people have already suffered enough at the hands of Islamic extremists,” Churkin told reporters. “To add insult to injury, many are being forced to pay out-of-pocket for healthcare.”

Since March of 2011, an estimated 430,000 Syrians have been killed as a consequence of a civil war between Russian-backed government forces and Islamic militants. As a result of the ongoing conflict, Syria’s once state-of-the-art healthcare system is in shambles. According to a recent report by the World Health Organization, less than thirty doctors who accept insurance remain active in Aleppo.

“It is simply unacceptable for these individuals to reap profits from the casualties of this unnecessary war,” charged Churkin. The diplomat went on to say that Russian and Syrian warplanes will continue to pound medical facilities where health insurance is not accepted as well as “any operations meant to exploit the plight” of the Syrian populace.

“Syrians already have enough to worry about,” Aleppo resident Adnan Nasry told Real News Right Now. The fifty-nine year-old lives with his three children in the burned out shell of what was once their family home. “With barrel bombs, poison gas, and shelling – not to mention the destruction of infrastructure – we have no running water or plumbing and my children must scavenge for food. How can we afford to pay for medical treatment?”

Fortunately for Adnan and his family, al-Assad’s forces are committed to eradicating Syria of its for-profit medical facilities one airstrike at a time. “No one cares more about the Syrian people than President Bashar al-Assad,” boasted Syria’s envoy to the UN, Staffan de Mistura. “We’re going to rebuild Syria from the ground up,” de Mistura continued, saying, “But first we must level it.”