Fiorina Compares Trump To Shaquille O’Neal: “Impossible To Hate Him Because He Beat The Black Mamba”
After calling on Donald Trump to drop out during the brutal presidential race, former GOP candidate Carly Fiorina sung the president-elect’s praises during a meeting at Trump Tower on Monday. Fiorina is reportedly being considered for the role of director of national intelligence. “It was an honor to meet the president-elect,” Fiorina told reporters before praising the “really cool” sports memorabilia in Trump’s office. “I was particularly taken by Shaq O’Neill’s shoe,” she explained. “I guess it takes a champion to know a champion.”

Asked to elaborate on the sudden change in her relationship with the President-elect, she argued that he’s “a man who stops at nothing when it comes to realizing his goals,” but that he also “has no problem communicating with yesterday’s enemies about tomorrow’s opportunities.” “And I’ll be the first one to admit that I stand corrected,” she added. “Donald Trump is a great man by anyone’s standards and there’s no way anyone in their right mind would turn down an opportunity to work with him, especially now.”

The former Hewlett-Packard CEO also argued that, regardless of their past differences, she “doesn’t resent him,” but in fact, has “started celebrating the fact that he is our new President.” “You don’t go hating on the man who has so much in common with a sports giant such as Shaquille O’Neal,” she said. “They’ve both had some rough times and both came out on top of the situation. And what’s more important – both of them beat their respective black mambas. That fact alone proves that Donald Trump is exactly where he’s supposed to be at this time.”

Asked who she’s referring to as the billionaire businessman’s black mamba, Fiorina said, “Do I really need to spell it out for you? It was a figure of speech, but the fact that our former president is of Kenyan descent should have made it pretty obvious. Anyway, if you recall, both O’Neal and Trump were ridiculed by their respective opponents on and off the court. And at the end of it all, both men came out victorious, each in his respective field. So, bottom line, I don’t care how much you hate Donald Trump – you just don’t have any arguments left to hate him. He’s good for this country and you know it.”

“As a matter of fact,” Fiorina continued, “the two are so much alike in some aspects that I’ve wondered if perhaps they share some genes or something. Other than their skin color and ridiculously different shoe size, both Shaquille O’Neal and Donald Trump are basically the same person. They’re winners, they never back down and they’re hugely successful, self-made men. Although, if I were Donald Trump and was thinking about deporting all black people back to Africa, I’d be slightly worried. After all, deporting complete strangers is one thing, but deporting family? That’s a whole other ballpark. Aside from not being very nice, it might cost him his second term,” she concluded.