Metro’s road to recovery sure can be discouraging
The final SafeTrack project of 2016 saw work on the Orange Line between the West Falls Church and the East Falls Church stations. (Katherine Frey/The Washington Post)

This letter-writer has waited patiently for my response about the resumption of Metro’s SafeTrack maintenance program.

Dear Dr. Gridlock:

I’m a senior who rides the Blue Line from Franconia-Springfield station. I hesitate to order theater tickets and the like until I know the planned dates. I can put up with single-tracking but prefer avoiding station closures. When SafeTrack started, the dates were fixed, but unexpected problems have created delays to the schedule.

— Nancy Jerdan, Springfield

There’s still some uncertainty about the remainder of the schedule, but Metro recently addressed Jerdan’s specific concern about the Blue Line. The track between the Pentagon and Rosslyn stations is scheduled to shut Feb. 11-28. Blue and Yellow Line riders will be affected by a single-tracking zone that will start March 4 and end April 9.

Metro plans three more SafeTrack projects from April through June that will affect the Green, Orange and Red lines, but we don’t know the exact dates yet.

[Metro updates SafeTrack schedule]

So how about a theater trip into the District during the 18-day shutdown? Jerdan needs to plan for the Blue Line going from Franconia-Springfield to Reagan National Airport only. What she probably would want to do is take a Yellow Line Rush Plus train instead.

Rush Plus normally operates only at peak periods from Franconia-Springfield, but during the Blue Line disruption, Metro announced, the Rush Plus trains will run all day. Blue Line riders could transfer at L’Enfant Plaza to the Orange and Silver Line trains, or at Gallery Place to the Red Line trains.

Metro acknowledged that temporarily truncating the Blue Line will likely result in crowding on the Yellow Line and said what you just hate to hear from a transit agency: “Blue Line customers should consider alternate travel options.”



I won’t go into the details of the 37-day single-tracking program. It’s so complicated, you won’t remember by the time it starts anyway. But the information Jerdan and other Blue Line riders should retain is this: From March 4 until April 2, the gaps between Blue Line trains will be twice as long as they are normally on weekdays. After that, between April 3 and 9, the Blue Line should be operating normally. Only Yellow Line trains will be sharing a track between Huntington and King Street.

Those disruptions are part of a program to fix track problems. The next letter-writer shares my concern about Metro’s budget deliberations, which include the prospect of reducing rush hour train service, which Metro officials have referred to as “right-sizing” the schedule to conform with the declining ridership.

Dear Dr. Gridlock:

The fallacy of right-sizing is that Metro service in the rush hour did not keep up with the growth in ridership.

Why are there so many calls for eight-car trains? Imagine you are in a car with 150 passengers. Ridership drops 10 percent, and you now have 135 passengers in the car. You are still going to be in a very crowded car.

Now increase the headways, and the train will be even more crowded. Throw in a service hiccup, and people can’t fight their way onto the trains.

[Metro budget paints grim picture of future]

Is that going to bring people back to Metro? An unscientific observation says that between start of service and, say, 7 and 7:30 a.m., some lines could live with lower frequencies, but not for the whole rush hour.

Lower off-peak frequencies have their problems, too. It’s one thing to wait for a train on longer headways. But many trips involve two lines, so you get hammered waiting for two trains, not one, and Metro does not coordinate transfers at major interchange points.

Until Metro can run trains reliably, 15-minute headways will easily become 20 to 25 minutes. I’ve given up on 75 percent of my former Metro weekend trips.

Cutting service is not the answer.

The train status boards are fine, but since Metro can’t seem to adhere to any pattern, you can’t plan when to be at a station to minimize your wait. More-frequent trains would reduce this problem, but Metro is going in the other direction.

— Ira Silverman, Rockville

Meanwhile, the transit staff thinks the proposed fare increase will be discouraging enough to cut annual rail ridership by 3.5 million trips. Combine that with the plan to decrease the frequency of rush-hour trains on most lines and you’ve got a program that reinforces failure.

Dr. Gridlock also appears Thursday in Local Living. Comments and questions are welcome and may be used in a column, along with the writer’s name and home community. Write Dr. Gridlock at The Washington Post, 1301 K St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071, or ­email drgridlock@washpost.com.