Backups on Metro as people streamed into D.C. for the Women’s March on Washington
Long lines at Bethesda Metro station slowed to a crawl as marchers tried to get to inbound trains on Jan. 21. (Nick Anderson/The Washington Post)

More people rode Metro for the Women’s March on Washington Saturday morning than for the Inauguration of President Donald Trump Friday.

By 11 a.m., Metro said 275,000 people had taken trips on Metro. The numbers are higher than Friday, Inauguration Day, when 193,000 trips had been taken by the same time.

The numbers Friday were also much lower than other recent inaugurations. Former president Barack Obama Former 2009 inauguration saw nearly nearly three times as many riders: 513,000 trips by 11 a.m. For Obama’s second inauguration, 317,000 people had ridden in the morning.

Metro said in a tweet that the ridership Saturday has been eight times a regular Saturday and even busier than most weekdays.

Some inbound Red Line trains, like this one near Van Ness station, were jammed at 7:30 a.m. with people holding signs and wearing pink hats. (Alejandra Matos/The Washington Post)

Trains were jammed with people, mostly women, holding signs and wearing pink hats. Long lines extended outside the station platforms, and parking lots and garages filled early.

Metro service, however, remained relatively problem-free, and crowds were cheerful despite long waits to get to the downtown meeting place for the march.

Parking spaces filled by 8:30 at Greenbelt and New Carrollton, while only a short while later there was no more space to park Vienna and East Falls Church, Metro said. By 10 a.m., Metro said many of the parking garages and lots around stations at the end of the line were full or near capacity. Riders were asked to seek other parking locations.

Metro opened two hours early and added two dozens trains to accommodate the crowds going to march, but the early-morning crush still strained the system.

The agency said the end-of-line stations were specially busy, and it urged travelers to allow extra time to buy fares, or consider boarding at other stations closer to the District. Metro said at 9:30 a.m. that it had opened the Federal Triangle Station. The station was scheduled to be closed Saturday.

[A guide to the march]

Once passengers were able to board, service was smooth on all lines for most of the morning until about 9 a.m., when a disabled train at Virginia Square caused delays for riders heading toward downtown on the Orange and Silver Lines.

[Live updates from the Women’s March on Washington ]

Travelers saw heavy police presence in some stations and lines at the entrance as riders unfamiliar with the system tried to buy or reload their SmarTrip cards.

Inbound trains from Maryland and Northern Virginia were standing room only and packed with chattering people. Some held signs and wore pink hats.

[The images you are capturing on the way to the Women’s March]

Thousands of people arrived by charter bus at RFK Stadium. The crowds were much larger than for the inauguration. About half headed for the Stadium-Armory station, while others chose to make the long walk on East Capitol Street toward the rally.

Metro set up a table to sell all-day rail passes.

Metro spokesman Dan Stessel said no major issues had been reported in the system. But he said the crowding was caused by long lines of new Metro riders buying SmarTrip cards.

Stessel also said heavy congestion to exit the system downtown was expected, because so many people are exiting at a small number of stations in the core.

“No service issues, crowds are being managed, everyone is in good spirits,” Stessel said.

Transportation officials from across the region said the crowds are unprecedented for a Saturday. In Baltimore, the lines at MARC commuter train stations were so large that the Maryland Transit Administration had to add extra train sets to accommodate them.

“MARC has added more than our 5 times capacity to help deal with unprecedented crowds,” the MTA said via Twitter. “We will continue to adjust as necessary.”

Streams of people also got out of D.C. Streetcars at Union Station, and walked from there to the march gathering at Third Street SW and Independence Avenue.

Kathleen Shumaker and Charice Putnam, visiting from North Carolina, said they had to wait for 20 minutes at Tenleytown Station so that three completely full trains could pass by. Finally, a fourth train arrived, a Metro employee shouted for the crowds to squeeze, and the two women jumped on.

“It was so packed!” said Shumaker, 25.

The trip toward Gallery Place, where they disembarked, was slow, with a few long stops. But the mood was cheerful, they said, and marchers talked to one another about what brought them out to DC on Saturday.

“It was frustrating, but it was also awesome, because it was great to see that we were all here for this,” Putnam said.

At an overwhelmed L’Enfant Plaza Metro station, hundreds of people shuffled out of their trains before 10 a.m., up the escalators and toward the bottlenecked exit.

But the crowd remained buoyant — even joyous. Many held up signs — “I am very upset!” and “Love Trumps Hate” and “Bridges not walls” — while others took videos of the moment on their cellphones. Every few minutes, a rolling roar swept over them, echoing through the concrete concourse.

Both women and men wearing the knitted pink hats that have become a symbol of the demonstration talked of venting frustrations that had been building since the November election.

“I feel better about myself already,” one bespectacled woman in coat said to a companion, who placed a hand on her shoulder. “I’m serious.”

John Woodrow Cox, Robert Thomson and Martine Powers contributed to this report.