A small lot doesn’t cramp this Shepherd Park home’s style


(Photo by HomeVisit) The main level’s open floor plan allows for flexible living. Relaxing, dining and entertaining spaces can shrink or expand according to need.

The lot in the Shepherd Park neighborhood of Northwest Washington became available when the owner of the house next door subdivided his land and sold the empty parcel. Developer Harvey Yancey of H2 Design Build turned to architect Makeba Gaines-Kelly to design a spacious contemporary home on the small lot.

The boxy house is a departure from the traditional bungalows, Cape Cods and Colonials in the neighborhood. Western red cedar breaks up the stucco exterior, adding softness and warmth to a structure that could have been cold and austere.

[D.C. area’s most expensive homes sold in 2016]

Because the house took up much of the lot, Gaines-Kelly extended the outdoor space by creating several terraces — some with glass railings — which added nearly 800 feet of living space. The glass panels make the balconies feel larger.

1 of 94 Full Screen Autoplay Close Georgetown rowhouse Great Falls, Va., estate Kalorama mansion Alexander Graham Bell’s former lab and library Massachusetts Heights modern home Warrenton, Va., castle Skip Ad × Distinguished homes for sale in the D.C. region View Photos The Washington Post’s picks of local distinguished homes on the market. Caption The Washington Post’s picks of local distinguished homes on the market. The contemporary home was built on an empty lot in the Shepherd Park neighborhood of Northwest Washington. It is listed at $1.595 million. Photo by HomeVisit Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

The mahogany-and-glass entry door is Yancey’s signature. He puts the custom door in all his homes. The door provides privacy but allows light to filter into the house.

The main level’s open floor plan allows for flexible living. Relaxing, dining and entertaining spaces can shrink or expand according to need. Yancey says the openness along with the outdoor decks with glass railings remind him of homes in Miami or Malibu, Calif.

[Looking for something different? Yacht river cruiser docked at National Harbor lists for $488,800]

Sunlight cascades through oversize windows, reflecting off white oak floors and creating a bright interior. Flat-panel European-style cabinetry and a large marble waterfall island add sleekness to the kitchen. The marble in the island is repeated on the gas fireplace surround in the family area.



(Photo by HomeVisit) The top floor is the master suite with a generous bedroom, terraces in the front and back, a wet bar for making morning coffee and a spa-like bathroom.

The second floor has three bedrooms and a small den that could be a home office or a TV room for the kids. The top floor is the master suite with a generous bedroom, terraces in the front and back, a wet bar for making morning coffee, and a spalike bathroom. The shower has an eye-catching marble herringbone floor and porcelain walls. The bathroom also has an oversize soaking tub and a double-sink vanity.

The lower level has a large rec room and a bedroom with an en-suite bathroom.

The four-level, 4,553-square-foot home has five bedrooms and six bathrooms. It is listed at $1.595 million.

Listing: 1327 Holly St. NW, Washington, D.C.

Listing agent: Josh Ross, RE/MAX Pros

Previous House of the Week