What’s up with the glowing box in a park on Pennsylvania Avenue NW?
Not far from the White House is a triangular park, bounded by Pennsylvania Avenue, 20th Street and I Street NW. Where there used to be a simple fountain there is now a square, cagelike pier that appears to be covered in some sort of screening and lighted from within by pink lights. What is this all about?

— John Peters Irelan, Washington

This is about what Duilio Passariello feels is missing from Washington: color.

Duilio is the Venezuela-born artist who created the light sculpture in James Monroe Park. He also designed the lighting effects that glow atop eight lampposts in Edward R. Murrow Park, two blocks east on Pennsylvania Avenue.

The Murrow Park installation is called “Murrow’s Mics.” A recording of one of Murrow’s wartime radio broadcasts — inaudible to passersby — triggers changes in the color of the lanterns.

“The lighting moves with the voice of Edward R. Murrow, a very important voice in the history of this country,” Duilio said.

The Monroe Park sculpture is called “Tricorn.” The name is a nod to the three-cornered hats worn by Founding Fathers like James Monroe. The sculpture — made of marine-grade stainless steel mesh — is a nine-foot-tall prism, the orientation of which subtly honors the continuity of the presidency, Duilio said. One vertex points east toward the White House. One vertex points north, to reference Abraham Lincoln. And one points south, toward the university named after George Washington.

The mesh takes on different characteristics depending on the day’s light. “If the day is sunny or cloudy, you see something different,” Duilio said. “It turns transparent or more translucent or totally opaque. That’s the natural light effect.”

But it’s at night that “Tricorn” really shines, becoming a glowing scrim.

Duilio is fascinated by light and color. He remembers in college looking through a scanning electron microscope at the iridescent blue wings of a butterfly and realizing that they weren’t actually blue.

“You see, the butterflies don’t have pigment,” he said. Tiny structures on the wing scales interfere with different wavelengths of light.

“You see blue because of the way it reflects the wavelength of blue,” Duilio said. “That was part of my exploration.”

Duilio decided he would be an artist who worked with light. That process used to be clunkier than it is today. Creating colored light once involved positioning colored gels over white lights.

“Now with LEDs, it has become less complicated,” Duilio said.

“Tricorn” sits in the center of a circular, water-filled basin (drained now for winter). Inside are 18 lights that can be programmed to display 16 million hues. After sunset, there is a slow transition through every color in the spectrum, from red to violet. (It’s pink for only part of the time.) Duilio likens the sculpture to a digital eternal flame.

The works were dedicated in summer 2015. The $256,000 cost was split by the D.C. Commission for the Arts and Humanities and the Golden Triangle Business Improvement District. They sit on National Park Service land.

“That work changed my life,” Duilio, 60, said of the projects. “I wasn’t planning to come to live in Washington, D.C., and here I am, two years later. . . . There is a lot of work to be done in this town. At nighttime it’s not as attractive as it should be.”

The capital’s big neoclassical buildings echo those from classical Greece and Rome. But the Greeks and Romans painted their buildings — paint that flaked away long ago — and Duilio thinks we should paint ours too: with colored light.

White light makes official Washington look like a cemetery, he said, while colored lights would transmit “the symbolism and the essence of this country.”

Imagine, Duilio said, a colored pattern shining across the Lincoln Memorial or the statue of Martin Luther King Jr.

Some people, Duilio admitted, would think it was kitsch.

“You have all the people who would say that’s not moral, not ethical,” he said. “But in fact it’s an absurdity because we have the technology. Color is overwhelmingly present in our lives by day, so why not by night?”

Duilio said if it was up to him, he would leave the Washington Monument white while bathing other memorials in ever-shifting rainbows.

Twitter: @johnkelly

For previous columns, visit washingtonpost.com/johnkelly.