Bad Boy C.E.O. Sean “Puffy” Combs Arrested in Connection With Murder of Tupac Shakur!
On Thursday, September 17th, 2014 the arrest of Sean “Puffy” Combs may have been undertaken by authorities for the 1996 murder of Tupac Shakur on the Las Vegas , Nevada Strip. Associates in Combs’ organization have indicated off-the-record that, yes, Sean Combs was in fact under arrest. This disclosure comes just days after the 18th anniversary of the so far unsolved murder of the mega-superstar, Tupac Shakur.

In a press release with the date of September 16th, 2014, a spokesperson for the Las Vegas District Attorney’s office said that there has come sufficient evidence to make an arrest and to obtain conviction for the murder of Shakur in 1996. This most probably indicates that an arrest warrant has been issued.

The same statement makes mention that former Death Row bodygaurd, Frank Alexander, has led detectives onto several witnesses that do show a ‘high profile person’ is connected to the conspiracy to murder Tupac Shakur. It said that an arrest would be soon to follow.

It has been reported widely by many of those supposedly in the know that, Orlando Anderson, a member of L. A. based South SIde Crips is the shooter in the Tupac case. Anderson, it is known, was beaten by Shakur and his Death Row associtates before the murderous shooting of Shakur on the Vegas Strip.

It has been said numerous times in the 18 years since the Shakur murder that Sean Combs and associates used Anderson and the South SIde Crips for security purposes when visiting California. Also, Anderson, the investigation into Shakur’s death has noted, was seen at the Peterson Automotive Museum speaking with Combs and his associate Christopher “Biggie Smalls” Wallace hours before the slaying. The murder was supposedly ordered by Combs.

A 2011 interview with Dexter Isaac found Isaac to admit that he was paid $2,500 by Combs to carry out a shooting in a robbery of Shakur at Quad Studios in New York. Isaac’s statements to police implicated Combs and Jimmy “Henchman” Rosemond in the plot to have Shakur murdered.

In a reporter’s phone call to the New York D. A.’s office they were told that it could be neither confirmed, nor denied, that it was Combs whom had been taken into custody. However, they did indicate that Combs was ‘a person of interest’ in the case . A call to the Las Vegas D. A. gained the information that a suspect had been apprehended and that an arrest was to be soon expected. They would not confirm that iti was Combs who had been taken into custody.

– [Via MostExtremeNews]

BREAKING NEWS!: Floyd “Money” Mayweather Jr. Offers $1,000,000 a Year For “Personal Reader” To Read Everything For Him!