How To Defeat the Globalists
Dave Hodges

December 5, 2013

The Common Sense Show

Is humanity doomed? Is there no hope to overcome the endless attacks upon humanity by the globalists? Should we just lie down and take our beating because there is nothing that we can do? Is there anything we can do?

When I appear as a guest on many radio shows, I am frequently asked how we defeat the globalists. What is the correct answer in response to the question, “How do we defeat the globalists”?

Do We Oppose the Globalists In the Physical or Spiritual Domain?

There can be little question that the globalists need to be opposed at every juncture of their unwarranted intrusions into our lives. However, if all we do is oppose our enemies at the physical gate, all we can hope to achieve is a stalemate. But if we would also employ the known spiritual weapons, which God has bestowed upon us, humanity could literally make quantum leaps in our circumstances and we would be more intimately connected to our source of creation.

Winning the Battle of Logic

There is clearly a war for the control of our minds. The globalists have successfully seduced the bulk of humanity into becoming little more than sheep who believe the lies put forth by the mainstream media. In an interview I conducted with Jim Marrs, I asked him how we could best counter the power that the globalists have over the people in our country, Jim answered “Turn the TV off”. Sometimes, wisdom comes in simple packages and Marrs has the talent for making the complex appear to be simple.

We need to attack the globalists stronghold that they use to imprison humanity’s minds. The globalists do not maintain control over us because they control the politicians. They do not maintain control over us because they control most of the instruments of law enforcement. The globalists control us because they control our minds by propagandizing us to death on a daily basis through the mainstream media.

Any organizing principle of war states that you must neutralize the command and control structure over the enemy. This is why, whenever we invade a country, we first take out their radar and communications ability. This is one of the approaches that we need to employ in neutralizing the hold the globalists have over our minds. To do that, we only need to follow Marr’s advice and turn off the TV. Collapse the major instrument of control that our enemies employ against us, namely, the control over our minds through the mainstream media.

If CNN and FOX were to disappear, we would stop being conditioned on what to think and begin thinking for ourselves. Subsequently, the veil of deception would be removed from over our eyes. The sheep would lose their media based shepherd and the sheep would be forced to find their own way in life. The resulting paradigm could lead to a global awakening and, other than the return of Jesus, this would constitute the worst nightmare for the globalists.

Winning the Numbers War

I have immersed myself in discovering how change occurs. Why do some movements take hold and win the day, while others die on the vine? The answer, coming from the field of social psychology, is surprisingly simple.

Scientists from the prestigious Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute have determined that if just 10% of any given population holds to an unshakable idea, that the idea will become adopted by the majority of the country. However, the scientists who belong to the Social Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center (SCNARC) found that if the ideas are shared by less than 10% of the population, the idea will not progress and will eventually die out. The research was first published in a peer reviewed E Journal in an article entitled “Social consensus through the influence of committed minorities.”

Computational and analytical methods were used to discover the tipping point where an obscure idea eventually becomes the majority opinion. The finding has dramatic implications for those of us trying to wake up the sheep in this country.

The SNARC scientists found that the 10% figure was applicable whether they were talking about the spread of innovations or to advance a political ideal.

Reaching 10% of the population should be the goal of the alternative media.

Rediscovering Our Inner Power

If the people of this planet only understood the power that lies within each one of us, our global elite oppressors would run for cover.

After researching this topic for years, I am convinced that the transhumanism experiments are, at their core, a representation of a distinct effort on the part of the demonically inspired rulers of this planet to discover and harness the true nature and power of the soul as well as to use the power for their own evil purposes. Let me be clear, I am firmly convinced that if we do not stand up and oppose our slave masters, we will indeed lose our most special resource, our soul.

What has frustrated the globalists is that the power of the mind, the body and the soul are inextricably intertwined and their efforts to morph (e.g. combining human and animal DNA) and to control the soul have met with failure. The soul, in particular is connected to our source point of origin and the globalists have failed in their experiments which attempt to isolate and control the soul.

Our point of origin which is manifested in our soul ,cannot be separated from a person and this fact represents the ultimate roadblock to total domination of our being by the global elite. The globalists can theoretically control the entire physical realm with all the food, water and weapons. However, they cannot stop the power of what lies deep inside of all human beings. Unfortunately, humanity has not claimed its God-given power.

The good news is that our spiritual powers are not just the proclamations and claims of mystics and metaphysical masters, these facts are now being quantified by science, despite the globalists best efforts to counter this power and to suppress the release of this information to the general public.

There is much more to the power of the mind than the gate keepers of the mainstream of society cares to admit. The global elite have been aware of and have tried to counter this power for all of human history. The Bible was correct when it said that people with faith can move mountains and now we have the scientific proof.

Make no mistake about it, the globalist controlled media holds the power of prayer, the power of intention and the power of the presence of what we label as miracles, in total contempt. There are significant reasons why I believe we will see a great purge against all genuine expressions of spirituality in the very near future. In fact this purge has already begun and it explains why the American Stasi, the Department of Homeland Security, has declared Bible-believing Christians to be domestic terror threats. After reading this article, you will discover when America descends into the tyranny of martial law, Christians will be the first large group to be purged. We will be persecuted and exterminated because our faith teaches how best to combat the power of the satanically inspired globalists.

It turns out that I had to leave some of my formal education behind in order to embrace a higher reality than the one I was trained in. In Rupert Sheldrake’s (Seven Experiments That Could Change the World: A Do It Yourself Guide to Revolutionary Science, 1995), he demonstrated that people can predict when they are being stared at from behind. This fact has very strong survival implications and this made a great deal of sense to me since much of our behavior is based upon survival. This discovery opened my mind ever so slightly as to the power that we all possess.

On the heels of the Rupert experiments, I discovered that committing random acts of kindness is very good for our health and our sense of well-being and this principle was actually being quantified in traditional research in a manner that actually operationalized the concept of “Pay it forward.”

Sonja Lyubomirsky in her book, The How of Happiness, spoke about the benefit of being kind. Performing an act of kindness releases serotonin in your brain. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter (i.e. brain messenger) which has demonstrable health benefits, including the ability to make us feel more happy. Not only does the originator of the act of kindness get a bump in their Serotonin levels, but so does the recipient of the act of kindness. Even people watching the random act of kindness feel good as a result of watching kindness in action. Do you understand what this means? We are hard-wired to be kind. Evil is destructive and love is life-preserving. Subsequently, our brains and their reactions to events are entangled.

The Mechanics of Global Consciousness

Performing the same research, over and over, under the same conditions and achieving the same results is the hallmark of good research (i.e. replicability). Through the Princeton EGGS experiment we now have solid, replicable empirical evidence that humans interact directly with each other and the world in the domain of consciousness, despite physical barriers and geographic separation.

As an aside, one night I was driving cross country and was listening to the classic Art Bell show. He was bemoaning the fact that an area of the country was experiencing devastating drought conditions. He did something that I had never seen before. Art performed a human consciousness experiment in which he asked the estimated 6-9 million listeners to his show to concentrate on bringing rain to a drought-stricken region. This experiment, performed on air lasted for about 3-4 minutes. It was not very good radio because there was a lot of dead air. However, I thought the concept was interesting, and so much so, I followed up on the results and discovered that the torrential rains visited the area when no rain was called for in the forecast. Flooding resulted and when I tuned back into Art’s show, I discovered he was freaked out and swore to never to perform the experiment again.

I took this anecdotal experience from Art Bell’s on air experiment and began to read about the phenomenon. I discovered that repeated experiments demonstrate an effect on experimenter instruments through the individual and combined group intentions in an experiment called the Princeton EGGs in which they subsequently named this power as group consciousness.

Can you imagine if we, the “useless eaters”, could be taught to pray for the same things? We could literally force the globalists off the planet. They know this and this is why they suppress the knowledge.

The Awesome Power of Prayer

The term “distant healing” has actually made its way into the lexicon of the National Institute of Health (NIH). Many medical facilities, including hospitals, refer to this phenomenon by various terms including prayer, spiritual healing and non-local healing. Just within the past few years, two major peer-reviewed journals have published studies on healing at a distance. The Annals of Internal Medicine published a review of 28 double-blind distant healing studies from reputable journals which came to the stunning conclusion that there is enough evidence to support a measurable effect of prayer at a distance and that more research was warranted and needed. Additionally, The Archives of Internal Medicine published a study, which reviewed the health data of 990 cardiac patients who were prayed for in a double-blind study. In this study, the people did not know that they were either being prayed for, or were not being prayed for. Further, in keeping with the tenets of double-blind studies, the people doing the praying did not know the individuals they were praying for. The praying people merely had a list of first names and last initials representing the people that were being prayed for. The survival rate of the group prayed for was significantly and measurably higher than the control group, in which nobody was prayed for.

Does experience with praying make a difference in the outcome? It is interesting to note that many of the people in the formal studies used experienced “healers”, while many studies have demonstrated that novices are just as effective. However, there is empirical evidence which suggests that these skills can be taught. Various schools and disciplines (e.g. Reiki, Therapeutic Touch) have collectively produced nearly a half of a million of trained “prayer” practitioners on the skills related to intercessory prayer.

Stunningly, the National Institute of Health is calling for more research to address the question of how to integrate healing at a distance prayers into the practices of mainstream medicine. Dr. Larry Scherwitz, who was the co-director of research at the Preventive Medicine Research Institute in Sausalito, California, has designed guided imagery techniques, not unlike the ones used by athletes, to this end. The goal of these practices is to teach cardiac patients the ability to control blood flow in order to minimize dangerous complications which can occur during surgery. What separates Scherwitz’s approach from the “mainstream” is that he also teaches the techniques to the family members of the patient. Prior to the surgery, the family takes a walk in order to collectivize and unify their intentions. Then, while the patient is asleep on the operating table, the family works with the therapist practicing the guided imagery in which they visualize minimal bleeding, a steady heart rate and a steady hand on the part of the surgeon. They end the session with what is called end-result imagery in which the patient awakens easily, experiencing comfort and is in an alert state. These practices, according to Scherwitz, are adaptable to all types of surgery.

The NIH has issued a grant to study healing at a distance.

Can you imagine how the world would change if we collectively prayed for peace, justice and “thy will be done”?

Changing the Way that We Look At Things

Another important effect to consider is the Hawthorne effect. The Hawthorne effect comes from the discipline of field research and it teaches us about the observer effect. It is a well-established principle that when research subjects know they are being observed, their behavior changes. The field of quantum mechanics teaches us the same exact principle. The lesson to be drawn here is that we, as individuals and as a collective whole of humanity, can change the way we look at things and then the things we look at will change. What I am saying here is that when we realize that we are gifted by our creator with undeniable talents and subsequently employ these talents to positively impact our environment, our collective faith can move mountains. The implications for the spiritual war that we are currently engaged in, should be apparent. Whenever, two or more like-minded people are gathered in His name, there is no limit to the power that we have at our disposal.

Putting the Principles to Work

The first thing that every American should do is to turn off your television and free your mind to be able to accept the realities of the times we live in.

Become a disciple for the truth. Seek the truth and spread the truth. There is plenty of room for millions more to join the alternative media with message of hope and power.

Do not shop at Walmart, Kmart or any of the other “slave-marts”. Do not feed the evil corporate beast that is poisoning our planet. Put your gun away and keep your pitchfork in the closet, simply let the evil die on the vine by ignoring it.

Commit daily acts of kindness. Love is the death of hate. Kindness erases persecution. Pay it forward and enjoy your serotonin high in the process.

Realize that the world does not a need a Ghandi, a Martin Luther King nor a Mother Teresa, the world needs millions of Ghandi’s, Martin Luther King’s and Mother Teresa’s. We are all God’s reformers. This fact alone could crush anything the globalists could mount against us. “Not in our house, not on our planet”, should become our refrain.

Find your niche, your God-given talents and subsequently give these gifts back to the world in the spirit of love. We are all soldiers engaged in the fight against evil.

Finally, pray and pray often, as this is our ultimate weapon. The power of collective prayer knows no limitations, it is waiting there for us to claim this power.