Scott Walker Suggests Carving Jesus’ Face Into Mt. Rushmore “As One Of The Founding Fathers”
“There are many ways to describe South Dakota’s way of attracting millennials, and one of them is to refer to it as “out of this world.” Namely, in an attempt to re-brand the state, South Dakota’s government – with the help of a marketing firm – has launched a new ad campaign with a simple, albeit bizarre message: “Moving here is better than moving to Mars.”

““Mars. The air not breathable. The surface: cold and barren,” the commercial begins. “But thousands are lining up for a chance to go there and never come back. But wait just a minute, would-be Mars rovers. Have you considered South Dakota?” The narrator makes the pitch: “South Dakota. Progressive. Productive. And abundant in oxygen. Why die on Mars when you can live in South Dakota?”

“While the ad is raising eyebrows, the Argus Leader detailed the painstaking process that went into this approach. The goal of the Governor’s office of Economic Development was to attract young people to a place deemed “boring.” Commissioner Pat Costello said the “hook works” with the younger generation, whom they are trying to attract.

See Also: Chris Christie: “Women’s Viagra Pill Will Only Increase Lesbianism”

“Costello told the newspaper: “You can live a life here. You can have fun here. You can have a great job and go fishing and biking and hiking. The opportunities are abundant.” And then he whipped out the ad-reference: “And hey – it really is way better than Mars.”

However, it would seem that politicians aren’t just focused on the 2016 presidential elections. One of the most conservative Republicans out there at the moment, Scott Walker, Gov. of Wisconsin, apparently caught sight of the peculiar advertisement and expressed his support and personal view on the matter in an exclusive interview with Newslo.

“I am well aware that people think I’m utterly conservative. But you know what? I don’t have a problem with that, not at all,” Walker stated. “In fact, one of the most conservative, and at the same time, impressive architectural features in the world is in South Dakota and the state’s government does it justice by trying to attract more people. Mt. Rushmore is a feature unlike any other I know about, and it’s synonymous with the state of South Dakota.”

He continued: “However, I do feel that Mt. Rushmore can be improved and left to the coming generations in a more glorious state than it was left for us by our predecessors. In addition to the founding fathers of this great nation, I think that carving the face of Jesus Christ into the rock would only amplify the significance of that great monument for all true Americans, since Jesus himself was also a founding father. I truly believe that it would help sway the misguided youth of this country onto their right and honorable path.”

Walker concluded by adding: “Not to mention it would do wonders for South Dakota’s tourism revenues.”