Morgan Ortagus: “Greeting The Real First Lady In Your Pajamas Proves You Were Never Right For The Job In The First Place”
Morgan Ortagus, a frequent Fox Business pundit and national co-chair of Maverick PAC, recently argued that the now former First Lady Michelle Obama should “just smile and be helpful to Melania Trump” instead of voicing her concerns about the president-elect. “People need to understand the American people spoke, the Electoral College voted and it’s time to move on,” she said.

And if today’s official handover of First Family duties was anything to judge by, Michelle took notice of Ortagus’ words. The former First Lady seemed happy, in a good mood and very friendly with the new, Slovenian-born First Lady. In fact, the two ladies seemed much more friendly compared to their stronger halves, both of whom were somewhat stiff, though smiling.

And yet, that didn’t seem to impress Ortagus one bit. Right after the ceremony, she was back at it, arguing that “if you’re going to greet the new First Lady wearing nothing than your maroon pajamas, it just proves you were never right for the job in the first place.” The national co-chair of Maverick PAC made the snappy comment in an interview with D.C. Daily.

“Imagine what would have happened if George Bush had welcomed Barack Obama in 2008 wearing nothing but his PJs?” she added. “All hell would have broken loose and we’d have never heard the end of it. But, you know, luckily George Bush was a gentleman and a President unlike any other, and he knew very well what he was doing. He knew that such a move would smear the image of America to a point where it would never be cleared again. And he made the right call.”

Ortagus continued, “But Michelle, on the other hand? No, that sort of thing just isn’t her cup of tea. But wearing high heels and maroon pajamas, complete with a matching color bathrobe on top is just fine, according to her. Heck, even her hair complemented her outfit accordingly, complete with the straight-out-the-bed pillow hair. I was embarrassed just watching the ceremony; who knows how poor Melania must have felt.”

“Let’s be clear about one thing: Attending an official White House handover ceremony in your bedroom outfit is no different than getting your hands on a classic Ferrari and then getting inside it completely naked…after not having a bath for six months. It just doesn’t make sense to do something like that, and just like with the Ferrari, it proves you should have never been in the position to do something like that. And by the way – while we’re on the subject – that’s also why gorillas aren’t meant to spend time outside the zoo – it’s out of their natural environment,” she concluded.