Kim Burrell: “I Agreed To Go On Ellen But Made Her Promise Not To Trick Me Into A Pervert Sinful Relationship With Her”
A video has emerged of gospel singer Kim Burrell attacking LGBT people as “perverts” and sinners, just days before she is scheduled to appear on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. The video, published December 30 on YouTube, shows Burrell preaching a sermon against homosexuality. “Anyone filled with the homosexual spirit, beg God to free you…That perverted homosexual spirit, and the spirit of delusion and confusion, it has deceived many men and women,” she yells in the video. “You as a man, you open your mouth and take a man’s penis in your face, you are perverted. You are a woman and will shake your face in another woman’s breast, you are perverted.” Burrell is scheduled to appear January 5 on The Ellen DeGeneres Show to perform “I See Victory” with Pharrell Williams.

Asked to comment on the video in question, the singer spoke to E! Online and argued that “everybody’s entitled to their own opinion,” and that “the only thing that’s wrong with hers” is the fact that it was caught on tape. “You know, I was against Donald Trump in general and, up until a while ago, was convinced that him being President was the absolute worst thing that could have happened to this country,” she said. “However, now that I think about it, and when I consider everything he’s said about political correctness and how it’s slowly killing this country from the inside, I’m beginning to think he had a point. Don’t get me wrong – I’m sorry to have to say it out loud, but I do believe he was right, in a manner of speaking.”

She continued, “If you think about it, this is a country where we’re proud of free speech, alright, that has been the one thing that has constantly been a characteristic of America. Freedom of speech in press, in media, in television, and in the streets, and especially in music, right? But, ever since this whole gay marriage thing was thrown out into the air, we haven’t had an ounce of free speech as far as that topic is concerned. Because, it seems to be okay whenever gay couples and lesbian couples and transgender people say they’re being oppressed and that their civil liberties are taken away. But, when a straight person says they aren’t fond of the whole LGBT thing, suddenly that’s cause for an apocalypse. Wait a minute – has the entire country lost its mind?”

“Now, what I said in that video is how I feel about the subject in question, and if anyone wants to have an argument or go at me because of it, you’re welcome to, I’ll be waiting,” the singer proclaimed. “But what I will not do is I will not stand idly by as the rights of normal, traditional and straight Americans are being ridiculed and pushed under the carpet in order to accommodate these perverted, liberal sentiments dressed up as equality for all. Equality is one thing, but when it’s considered insulting to speak your mind on whatever topic in public, that’s when we know we’ve kissed free speech goodbye.”

“And as for my appearance on The Ellen Show, I can only say that I have made my peace with her and have agreed to perform as scheduled; that much was up to me and I have decided to be professional about this. That being said, however, I must add that I’ve made her promise me that she wouldn’t try to trick me into any type of perverted relationship in the process. My opinion on the matter is quite clear, I think, and I’m happy to announce that she’s agreed not to pull any tricks on me during my appearance. In fact, while we’re on the subject, she’s also agreed not to allow any gay or lesbian people in the audience while I’m in the studio, which was very nice of her. And my agent wanted me to also ask her to not be physically present while we shoot, but rather be on Skype during the show, but I thought that would be pushing it, so I wanted to compromise as well. All in all, I think we’ll be fine,” she concluded.