Donald Trump ‘overwhelmed’ preparing for president, report confirms doubts about future


Donald Trump ‘overwhelmed’ preparing for president, report confirms doubts about future

Donald Trump was just as surprised about winning the election than anyone else, and now there are serious doubts if he can do the job.

The entire world had their eyes glued to the election returns last Tuesday and the consensus was that #Hillary Clinton would become the country’s first female commander in chief. After #Donald Trump pulled off the monumental upset, millions were left stunned, including himself.

Trump worries

When Trump made his campaign announcement last summer, he quickly found himself in the headlines after he referred to illegal immigrants from Mexico as “rapists” and “murderers.” Over the course of the next 18 months, the billionaire real estate mogul would go on insulting various minority groups while being labeled a “racists,” “sexist,” “Islamophobic,” and “homophobic” in the process. With a growing minority electorate, no one gave Trump much of a chance at success. As Business Insider reported on November 12, Trump was surprised by his victory, and is having trouble adjusting to the new job.

When the new president-elect was informed that he had defeated Clinton, he was “shocked,” according to campaign aides and staffers. In a report originally published by The New York Times, one of Trump’s struggles is leaving the comfort of Trump Tower in New York City for the White House in Washington, D.C.

Trump advisors have confirmed that the former host of “The Apprentice” might spend the week in the White House, while returning to one of his three homes across the country during the weekend. Trump’s advisors expect a difficult transitioning process for Trump, who is being described as “overwhelmed” by the realization that he will be the leader of the free world. Trump is also worried about how he will handle his social media account, which was evident over the last 24 hours. On Thursday night, Trump lashed out at the protests taking place across the country in opposition to his election victory, but quickly praised the protesters the following morning.

Uncharted waters

Trump is the first president-elect in the nation’s history without a background in either the military or government. As the country appears more politically and culturally divided than at any time in recent memory, Trump will be forced to bring both sides together. Before he is able to do that, however, Trump will head to courthouse to face fraud and racketeering charges in relation to an ongoing lawsuit with #Trump University, whose trial begins on November 28.