O Music Awards Dance Marathon Sets Guinness Record
Dancers broke the record for Longest Team Dance Marathon.

By Gil Kaufman









Dancers participate in the Longest Team Dance Marathon at O Music Awards 2



Photo: Kevin Winter/ Getty Images

They came, they danced, they kept on dancing and then they danced a bit more and set a Guinness World Record. And it all happened at the O Music Awards on Monday night when a group of tireless hoofers grinded it out for 24 hours to snatch the Guinness record for the Longest Team Dance Marathon.

The group of dancers — a lucky 13 — assembled at the Roxy in Hollywood on Halloween Eve to kick off their attempt with some musical assistance from DJ Diamond Kuts. And then they were off, tearing it up, with minimal five-minute breaks per hour, for 24 hours. And it was all for a good cause, to raise awareness for National Bullying Prevention Month and to raise cash for a number of anti-bullying campaigns from groups including GLAAD, GLSEN, GSA Network, HRC and the It Gets Better Project and Trevor Project.

At one point less than 12 minutes before the record was set, one of the night’s co-hosts, D-Trix, pulled aside dancer Danielle and asked her how it was going. Doing a kind of slow-motion “Saturday Night Fever” hip-sway and point when asked how she was doing, she said, “Oh fantastic, but I can’t wait for this thing to be over.”

When they finally crashed the 24-hour mark, it was like New Year’s Eve, with balloons falling from the ceiling and lots of whooping. The dancers celebrated by stomping the balloons and, well, doing a bit more dancing to MC Hammer’s “U Can’t Touch This,” pausing only to receive their official Guinness World Record certificate.

The dance record was just one of the highlights of the show, which featured killer performances from Mac Miller, the Band Perry, the Alabama Shakes and traffic-stopping headliner Robyn, as well as special appearances by Kelly Clarkson, Tyler, the Creator, Demi Lovato, Travie McCoy, John Cho and Kal Penn.

There were, of course, plenty of awards handed out as well, including nods to Adam Lambert (Must Follow Artist on Twitter), Joe Jonas (Best Lyrics Video, “See No More”), Lovato (Best Artist With a Camera Phone), Nirvana (Best Vintage Viral Video, “Smells Like Teen Spirit”) and Björk (Digital Genius Award).

Related Videos