Study Summation: Melatonin Is A Cure For Breast Cancer
Conclusive Study Summation

Melatonin As A Cure For Breast Cancer

Dr. Amanda Black, PHD

ABSTRACT:

In a scientific investigation, Dr. Amanda Black, PHD was able to determine that Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine), in supplement form, is a conclusive cure for breast cancer. Biologically, Melatonin is naturally secreted through brain receptors in humans, and is popularly known for helping people develop and secure circadian rhythms, however, it has been recently discovered as a potent antioxidant. Currently Dr. Black is awaiting peer review on this investigation. Not all evidence in this publication is final, nor is it near completion at this time.

INTRODUCTION:

Melatonin is a compound that has been proven to block free-radicals from impacting a person’s body. History shows that scientific studies have been launched for years, trying to confirm the link between the hormone and its anti-oxidant properties to the prevention of oxygen activating molecules that damage cells and cause cancer. Some scientists believe that Melatonin can suppress these cancer causing cells, yet no scientist has proven the fact as of yet.

MATERIALS:

Using a control group of one hundred women, Dr. Black was able to determine the positive effects of Melatonin on breast cancer submission and prevention. All participants in the group were in various stages of the illness, some just having been diagnosed, and others in terminal stages. Each participant was prescribed 5MG of Melatonin daily, with no other medication changes.

Dr. Black was allowed use of a major cancer center, as well as available equipment, such as a blood laboratory, rooms for paracentisis, MRT, CT, and Ultrasound equipment, as well as a team of Oncologists and support nurses, in the event that the treatment was not the right choice for a given patient.

METHODS:

The study was performed over a five week period. Dr. Black monitored each participant closely, to determine if the hormone was, in fact, changing their condition. Blood work was drawn weekly to determine if white blood cell counts showed improvement, and the women each received ultrasound examinations to monitor tumor sizes and possible changes.

Using data drawn from the study period, Dr. Black was able to determine a 100% success rate of the Melatonin therapy.

RESULTS:

All one hundred participants showed improved white blood cell counts and decreases in tumor sizes. Early stage patients also experienced full remission from the illness, and terminal patients showed no further need for paracentisis. Patients in higher stages of breast cancer have contracted Dr. Black to continue Melatonin Therapy until they also secure remission.