Cabinet Members to be Determined by Apprentice Style Reality Show
NEW YORK, Ny. – Former reality TV star and United States president-elect Donald J. Trump will appear in The Cabinet, an upcoming six-part Apprentice style reality show that will ultimately serve to determine the most qualified candidates for key cabinet positions inside his administration, campaign manager Kellyanne Conway confirmed to Fox News on Saturday.

The Cabinet, which premieres December 1st on NBC, is hosted by vice president-elect Mike Pence and former American Idol judge Simon Cowell. “It’s an honour and a privilege to be able to play a role in the American democratic process,” Mr. Cowell told The Independent. The fifty-seven year-old Cowell, who has also appeared as a judge on The X-Factor and America’s Got Talent, vowed to bring his signature brand of harsh judgement and criticism to The Cabinet. “This is obviously a very important competition,” Cowell said. “Now having said that, if you’ve got a big mouth and you’re controversial, you’re going to get attention.”

The show’s cast is said to include a who’s-who of past Apprentice and Celebrity Apprentice stars as well as a number of generals and politicians currently being considered for cabinet positions by president-elect Trump and his transition team. “This is going to be a very tense competition,” said co-producer Marcus Young. “You’re going to have Gary Busey, Meatloaf, Dr. Ben Carson, and Senator John McCain in one corner; they’re going to have to set aside their differences and work together to produce an advertising campaign for a fictional lemonade distributor.”

Meanwhile, a second team of celebrities and prospective cabinet members including Star Jones, New Jersey governor Chris Christie, Arsenio Hall, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford, will have to race against the clock to formulate a comprehensive twelve-point plan to save Social Security.

Craig Wolff, a senior staff writer for The Hollywood Reporter, was among a handful of journalists who were invited to attend a screening of the show’s first episode. “The results were pretty shocking,” Wolff told TMZ. “A certain well-known cast member suffers a major meltdown almost immediately.” Citing a non-disclosure agreement with NBC, Wolff said he could not reveal the identity of the cast member, but later added, “It’s no one you would immediately expect.”

The Cabinet is scheduled to air December 1st at 9/8 Central time on NBC.