The Psychological Reasons Why Trump Has Already Won the Presidency -
In 2011, Zibigniew Brzezinski lamented that the people were waking up to the tyranny that he and his fellow globalists were perpetrating upon humanity. At the time, I thought that the following Brzezinski quote was alarmist and not based on fact.

So long as the global elite controlled 95% of the media, courtesy of Bill Clinton deregulation, I did not believe that the Independent Media had any chance to wake up the slumbering masses. Collectively, the mass media produced a condition called “group think”.

In large part, the American people have been conquered through the principle of group think. Throughout history, group think has played a prominent role in coercing the public of any nation into going to war for the benefit of the elite ruling class and their financial bottom line.

Group Think

Group think is a term coined by social psychologist Irving Janis in 1972, and it occurs when a group makes faulty decisions because group pressures lead to a deterioration of “mental efficiency, reality testing, and moral judgment”.

Groups affected by group think ignore alternatives and tend to take irrational actions that dehumanize other groups. A group is especially vulnerable to group think (e.g. reducing people to a “conspiracy theorist” status) when someone is accusing the government of wrong-doing.

Group think gets an individual to unquestionably accept the will of the elite as represented by the Main Stream Media. It is the psychological phenomenon which explains the incredulous idea that there is no such thing as a conspiracy theory as if two bad people would never get together and plan to do something bad. The phenomenon results in this….

“Yes we can go to war, die for the corporations, sacrifice our kids future an believe that free trade agreements like the TPP, NAFTA, CAFTA and how America got the SHAFTA, are good.

This paradigm of group think as delivered trough the MSM was getting Americans to literally and figuratively commit suicide. And amazingly, through group think, many Americans would defend the practice and chastise who would dare point out the dangers. At least the paradigm was working until this man decided to get into politics.

Throughout my academic career, I have immersed myself in discovering how change occurs. Why do some movements take hold and win the day, while others die on the vine? The answer, coming from the field of social psychology, is surprisingly simple.

The flip side of group think also exists. The antidote to group think is more group think in the form of presenting a group think psychology that is the antithesis of the existing paradigm being perpetrated today

“We’ll know our disinformation program is complete when everything the public believes is false.”

William Casey, former CIA Director

Group Think vs. Confirmation Bias

The social psychological term, confirmation bias, refers to the fact that the masses will believe even the biggest of lies, if they hear it often enough. Confirmation bias and group think work hand in hand to enslave Americans into believing in and accepting a self-destructive paradigm. Television MSM news has a filtering impact on the perception of reality. The psychological concept of confirmation bias means that when we hear a message often enough, we come to unquestionably accept the message as authentic and real. And the message is amazingly consistent because only six globalist corporate entities control over 90% of the media.

CAN THE PEOPLE EVER BREAK FREE OF CONFIRMATION BIAS AND GROUP THINK?

The short answer is a resounding yes and it is has already happened courtesy of Donald Trump. Below is a critical piece of psychological research which describes how this shift has already happened.

The Ten Percent Factor

Scientists from the prestigious Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute have determined that if just 10% of any given population holds to an unshakable idea, that the idea will become adopted by the majority of the country. However, the scientists who belong to the Social Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center (SCNARC) found that if the ideas are shared by less than 10% of the population, the idea will not progress and will eventually die out. The research was first published in a peer reviewed E Journal in an article entitled “Social consensus through the influence of committed minorities.”

Computational and analytical methods were used to discover the tipping point where an obscure idea eventually becomes the majority opinion. The finding has dramatic implications for those of us trying to wake up the sheep in this country.

The SNARC scientists found that the 10% figure was applicable whether they were talking about the spread of innovations or to advance an ideal.

Reaching 10% of the population should be the objective of the alternative media and the primary goal should be the preservation of the soul and not to be quite as focused on achieving physical victory in this realm of existence.

Conclusion

When people visit my website and listen to my live broadcast and/or radio archives, as many as 1.2 million people are exposed to the truth that the MSM will not tell you about over a typical 30 day period.

When Donald Trump speaks, 12o million Americans, will somehow be exposed to his message through direct exposure or second hand information passing. My platform is no match for the reach of Donald Trump’s message. Every time Trump speaks, he undoes the power of group think and confirmation bias by the sheer number of people that he reaches with even a single statement. With the veil of lies being lifted, the people are free to see the lies of the elite.

Trump has spent $25 million and he has set the psychological mind control mind control agenda of the elite on its ear.

The elite have only begun to fight to hang on their ill-gotten turf. They will stop at nothing to preserve their immoral status quo. They will start wars, launch false flag attacks, increase the

violence at Donald Trump events and even kill Trump. These are issues for another article. Right now, hold your head up high America, stick your chest out, because for this moment, the good guys are finally winning. And even if the election is stolen or they kill Trump, his ideas cannot be killed. Trump has already won and we have already won.

Source : www.thecommonsenseshow.com

Comments

comments