Burger King Halloween Whopper Reportedly Turning Skin Color Black (See Photos)
After Burger King added the odd ‘Halloween Whopper’ to its menu for the month of October, many were not sure if the black breaded whopper looked all too appetizing or even safe to eat, but of course it is… right?

Well, In the last few days since the release of the Halloween Whopper, there have been a total of 34 cases across the United States where the skin of the consumer has turned from Caucasian to Black. According to experts, An estimated 0.0001% of Halloween Whopper consumers have been affected by this odd change of skin color. Individuals who were once light skinned, have now permanently turned dark skinned. These individuals also found there poop to be a pitch black color when using the bathroom. “I ate about three of those black whoppers and the next day just woke up and looked in the mirror and I was black. I also took a sh*t and it was all black” says Jason Mensa, A victim of the mysterious Halloween Whopper. “I went from Drake to Akon in a matter of hours.” finished Jason as she began to cry. See Jason’s before and after pictures below:

The FDA decided to open an urgent investigation on the Halloween Whopper and made a shocking discovery. The FDA discovered that the whopper is not dyed black with ordinary food coloring as Burger King announced, but rather dyed with extremely high amounts of black ink, enough to turn your skin black within a few days. Experts say ordinary food coloring could not turn the bread black as Burger King wanted, so they proceeded to use Black ink. “It’s like getting a huge tattoo” says Dr. Esteban Greizman, “The amount of ink they use in a single whopper is sixteen times the amount it takes to complete your average arm sleeve tattoo. This also explains why consumers are suffering from diarrhea and black poop.”

The FDA is forcing Burger King to seize the production and sale of the Halloween Whopper. However, It may take up to a few days for the Whopper to vanish from stores. If you’ve ate a Halloween Whopper in the last few days, be advised that your skin color can change dramatically because of the black ink used in the ingredients.

Subscribe to huzlers.com for more updates on the Halloween Whopper straight to your email. Visit our clothing store MarvelousAttire.com

HUZLERS.COM