Smokers And Ex Smokers -This Super Juice Will Clean Your Lungs (Video) -
Smokers And Ex Smokers -This Super Juice Will Clean Your Lungs (Video)

Statistics provided by the CDC reports that smoking leads to disease and disability and harms nearly every organ of the body.

More than 16 million Americans are living with a disease caused by smoking.

For every person who dies because of smoking, at least 30 people live with a serious smoking-related illness.

Smoking causes cancer, heart disease, stroke, lung diseases, diabetes, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis.

Smoking also increases risk for tuberculosis, certain eye diseases, and problems of the immune system, including rheumatoid arthritis.

Smoking is a known cause of erectile dysfunction in males.

The CDC also states the smoking is the leading cause of preventable death.

To have the ability to cleanse the lungs and remove toxins is a good way to fight these diseases and more, for smokers and non-smokers alike.

This super juice is composed of just 3 simple items you probably already have in your pantry.

Ginger

Ginger is an ancient spice that was has been used since ancient times because of its healing properties.

Along with its other known health benefits, Ginger helps to eliminate the excess mucus of the lungs.

Onion

Onion and garlic both possess anti-cancer properties which are a great ally in numerous malignant conditions.

It is especially beneficial in the prevention of various respiratory diseases.

Turmeric

Turmeric or Indian saffron is full of vitamins and minerals, and contains super-healthy omega 3 fatty acids.

It has antiviral, antibacterial and anticancer properties, so be sure to enrich the daily diet with this spice.

Ingredients to make this super elixir:

400 grams of onion

1 liter of water

400 grams of sugar (if you want a healthier version, use honey or maple syrup)

2 tablespoons turmeric

Thumb-sized ginger root

Directions

1. Pour the sugar in the water, put on the fire and let it boil.

2. Slice the onion into quarters and slice the ginger root before adding both to the water. When the mixture boils again, add the turmeric, and lower the heat.

3. Let the mixture boil until the amount of water is reduced by half. Then strain and pour the liquid into a glass jar. When completely cooled, put it in the fridge, and keep it there all the time.

4. Take two tablespoons of elixir in the morning on an empty stomach, and two hours after the evening meal.

“To purify the lungs do not need a miracle, but the miraculous healing properties of the beverage made of three plants: ginger, onion and turmeric”

In the video below are more tips and tricks you can use to ensure your respiratory system stays clean and healthy.

Comments

comments