Donald Trump Calls Justin Trudeau “Canada’s Worst President Yet”
THE next President of the United States, has openly questioned the credentials of Justin Trudeau, labeling the Canadian head of state “an embarrassment” and a “terrible president”.

In a no-holds barred interview with a Canadian magazine to be published next month, Donald Trump claims that despite being only in the job for less than year, Trudeau is “easily Canada’s worst president yet.”

“Honestly I think he’s done a terrible job so far,” Trump observed when questioned about Trudeau, and later tweeted: “He should be ashamed to call himself the President of Canada.”

Trump even warned Canadians that the Liberal leader’s continued “regressive” leadership could result in a change in job title for future Canadian leaders.

“Well as I’m sure you know, I’ve followed Canadian politics closely all my life,” Trump maintained. “And I think he’s done such damage to the Canadian presidency that they should rename it to like, prime minister or something more Canadian-sounding, like emir or emperor.”

Trump openly questioned Trudeau’s immigration policy, calling him the “founder of Canadian ISIS”, but cited the 44-year-old’s “terrible record” with women’s rights, as the main reason for his loss of faith in the Liberal Party leader.

“What kind of feminist punches a broad, huh?” Trump said. “He viciously assaulted a young woman, who is very lucky to be alive, but the left wing media says nothing? Can you imagine what they’ll say when I elbow Elizabeth Warren in the jugs? Hypocrites.”

The “self made” billionaire called on Trudeau to take “inspiration” from Trump’s own status as the poster-child for modern day male feminists. “Do you know how many strippers I have personally put through education at Trump University? Of course not,” he said, shaking his head. “All of those chicks are walking around now with doctorates! Fucking DOCTORATES! You literally can’t put a price on an education like that.”

Do you agree with Trump or is Trudeau a good “president”? Join the debate on Facebook and Twitter…