Danny Cipriani wants £10 million for Strictly Come Dancing
His exes Kelly Brook and Kirsty Gallacher have both competed in Strictly Come Dancing.

And Danny Cipriani has taken a swipe at his former lovers by revealing he would only ever sign up to the BBC One dance series for a whooping '£10 million in cash'.

The rugby player, 29, revealed to BANG Showbiz: 'I want it all before I start,' as he teased the show's producers who have seemingly had their eyes on the hunk for a while.

Scroll down for video

Stating his fee: Danny Cipriani has revealed he would only ever sign up to the BBC One's Strictly Come Dancing for a whooping '£10 million in cash'

'I'd have to have £10 million in cash to do that! Unless that happens then I am never going to do it,' he continued.

'It's not even about wanting money, I am just joking about. I think all of the shows are great and I enjoy watching all of them. I just personally wouldn't go on them.'

The sportsman was also approached to take part in the Australian version of the dance competition back in 2011 but turned it down stating:

'I am just not really down for that stuff. It's all good and well but it's just not for me. I couldn't be a better dancer to be honest.

Not smooth: The rugby hunk has taken a swipe at his former love birds Kelly Brook (L) and Kirsty Gallacher (R) for taking part in the dance competition

'I just personally wouldn't go on them': After stating his fee, Danny quickly revealed he was joking but revealed the show wasn't his sort of thing

'Once again 10 million in cash and then talk to me. BBC is amazing and it definitely has its place, but 10 million in cash and then we will talk. Yeah the sequins, you've put it up to 12 million in cash. The price keeps going up then,' he teased.

And while he didn't outright speak of his former flames, it seemed like he made a dig at them for appearing on the hugely popular show.

His ex Kelly Brook took part in the fifth series of the show in 2007 where she was partnered with ballroom pro Brendan Cole.

During her time on the dance competition, her father Kenneth Parsons died from cancer and she withdrew from the competition in week nine.

Giving it her best shot: His ex Kelly Brook took part in the fifth series of the show in 2007 where she was partnered with ballroom pro Brendan Cole. However, she withdrew after her father Kenneth Parsons passed away from cancer during the series

Kelly and Danny first briefly dated in 2010, and reignited their romance in 2013 before Kelly called it off after reported emerged he had cheated on her.

His other previous lover Kirsty Gallacher was also partnered with Brendan back in 2015.

She was eliminated in week sixth where she finished in eleventh place.

Meanwhile, Cipriani concluded on the prospect of appearing on the show, stating: 'Honestly, for me there are things that I want to achieve in life that don't really involve going on TV like that.

'I wanna do more sport and being involved in sport and trying to be positive and help in what ways I can. I can safely say it is not something I would do.'