King Farouk Appoints New Premier
Nahas Pasha Goes: "Failed to maintain order"

17 British dead in Cairo riots

King Farouk last night dismissed Nahas Pasha and his Government as a direct consequence of Saturday's anti-British riots in Cairo.

The new Prime Minister, Aly Maher Pasha, announced his Cabinet almost at once. All, like himself, are Independents.

King Farouk acted although Nahas Pasha had taken strong measures to restore order. Martial law is in force in Cairo and there is a dusk-to-dawn curfew. Assemblies are forbidden and the troops have orders to shoot offenders. Three hundred arrests of "subversive elements" have been made.

Seventeen British are feared to have been killed in the riots and much European property was destroyed. The British Ambassador warned the Egyptian Government yesterday that they will be held responsible. In London Mr Eden discussed the news from Egypt with the United States Ambassador; he also saw the Chiefs of Staff.

The liner Queen Mary, with Mr Churchill on board, is due in Southampton to-day. The Prime Minister will travel direct to London.

New Prime Minister - Same Inspirations

Cairo, January 27, 1952

King Farouk to-day dismissed his Prime Minister, Nahas Pasha, and called on Aly Maher Pasha, a former Premier, to form a new Ministry. Maher Pasha immediately formed a new Ministry.

Aly Maher Pasha is regarded in political quarters as Nahas Pasha's chief opponent. During the last war Nahas Pasha placed him under house arrest for alleged pro-Axis leanings.

The King dismissed the Cabinet late to-night after Nahas Pasha and his Wafd party Cabinet had discussed for four hours what action to take after yesterday's riots, in which at least twenty people are said to have been killed and about two hundred injured.

It was disclosed at the Cabinet meeting that three hundred people, including many extremists and well known agitators, had been arrested by the police after demonstrators had burned and looted the commercial area of the city.

Armed Escort

Nahas was dismissed by King Farouk one hour before midnight. When the King had made his decision, a royal courier was summoned to the palace where he was given the message. Then, with an armed escort, he drove through the darkened streets to Nahas Pasha's home. On the way they passed patrolling troops and police, standing by in case of further troubles.

In his letter of dismissal to Nahas, King Farouk said:

"The thing we care for most is that the country should be ruled by a Government which preserves its security and maintains order. We deeply regret the disturbances which swept the capital yesterday, resulting in the loss of lives and property. The spread of events showed that the government failed to maintain security and order.

"We hereby relieve you of your duties, thanking you for what you have done. "

Mr Maher Pasha was appointed Prime Minister directly by King Farouk. He was also appointed Military Governor of Egypt. The new Premier immediately formed a Cabinet of Independents with himself holding the main posts of Foreign Affairs and War and Marine in addition to the Premiership.

Aims as before

In a letter to King Farouk accepting the Premiership, Aly Maher Pasha said he would strive to achieve Egypt's national aspirations - evacuation of British forces from the Suez Canal Zone and unity of the Nile Valley. He would also work for the maintenance of public security and the rule of law. He also told the King: "I have a come to an understanding with party leaders to co-operate with me in the formation of apolitical front, which I hope to create soon."

The King said he had selected Aly Maher Pasha for his loyalty and efficiency.

The other Ministries are: Interior, Ahmed Mortada Bey: Finance, Zaky Abdel Motaal: Education, Mohamed Abdel Khalek Hassouna Pasha: Supplies, Commerce, and Industry,Ahmed Ibrahim Abdel Wahas Pasha: Agriculture, Salib Fahmy Pasha: Justice Mohamed Aly el-Namazy:Communications, Hamed Soliman Bey: Social Affairs Mohamed Hassan Pasha: Health, Ibrahim Shawky Bey; Moslem Trusts, Saad el-Laban.

Late to-night, the new Premier ordered the sealing off of the headquarters of the Socialist party Al Ishterakeya.

Aly Maher Pasha, who is 68, was Prime Minister early in 1936, but his Government was not long in power. In August, 1939, he was again appointed Prime Minister. Early in October, 1939, he made a statement on Egypt's support for the allied cause, and in June, 1940, he told the Egyptian Parliament that Egypt would fulfil all her obligations. A few days later his cabinet resigned, and he was succeeded by Nahas Pasha.

In April, 1942, Aly Pasha was placed under arrest "for reasons relating to the safety and security of the State," according to Nahas Pasha. The reasons were not given. When Aly Pasha's brother, Ahmed Maher Pasha, became Prime Minister in 1944, he was released. Aly Pasha later vigorously denied in the Senate reports that he had helped the Italians during the war.