STEPHEN GLOVER on Prince Charles's climate change theory
Prince Charles, pictured, has suggested climate change is the biggest threat to the globe

Prince Charles cares about climate change more than anything else. According to his spokesman, he regards it as 'the number one threat to the planet and it is the thing he cares most passionately about'.

That's quite a claim. Does he care more passionately about this issue than the future of Britain or poverty in the Third World or the possibility of a third world war? Apparently so. For years the Prince has been increasingly outspoken in predicting Armageddon.

Back in March 2009 he stated that we had 'only 100 months to act' before damage caused by climate change became irreversible. Those 100 months are about to expire but he evidently believes it's still not too late to do something.

This week sees the publication of a Ladybird book aimed at adults written by the Prince with the assistance of the former Green Party parliamentary candidate Tony Juniper and polar scientist Emily Shuckburgh. According to the publishers, the idea for the book came from the heir to the throne.

Reasonable people may ask why he shouldn't express his views on a subject so important to him. If it were done moderately, humbly and sensibly there could be no objection. Unfortunately, the Prince has become a zealot where wise men tread cautiously.

Here is a man who declared in 2012 that mankind was 'committing suicide on a grand scale' if urgent action were not taken on green issues. In 2015 he suggested that one of the 'main reasons' for the war in Syria was a drought attributable to climate change. I can think of about ten more plausible contributory factors.

His latest extreme idea, expressed in an article in yesterday's Mail on Sunday, is that television weather forecasts should make clear that global warming is partly to blame for floods and heatwaves.

This might go down well with the BBC, which has virtually banned climate-change sceptics from its airwaves, but I suspect that many people would regard such an innovation as naked propaganda.

Prince Charles, pictured, suggested climate change could be responsible for the Syrian war

There is, in fact, room for doubt as to whether most of the floods and other recent natural disasters have been caused by climate change. Yet the assumption that all of them have been is held by many enlightened people. On Christmas Day I heard the Bishop of Oxford, the Rt Revd Steven Croft, in an otherwise excellent sermon ascribe the exceptionally mild weather to climate change. The idiocy of that view may be tested by the cold spells we have endured over the past few weeks. Christmas happened to be mild.

Prince Charles has no doubt considered the matter more carefully than the bishop. Nonetheless, there are some scientists who, though not necessarily climate-change sceptics, argue that the increasing number of natural disasters may not be the result of man-made climate change.

Why, I ask myself, is Prince Charles behaving like a far-out climate-change activist, of whom there are surely enough? In the introduction to his new Ladybird book, he argues tendentiously that action on climate change 'must be urgently scaled up'. He means we need even more measures than currently exist.

In Britain this would affect the poor and the old disproportionately. Prince Charles almost certainly does not study his electricity bill. If he did, he would know that green levies already account for about 10 per cent of energy bills. If action is indeed 'scaled up', this figure will rise.

The consequences would be felt even more keenly in the Third World, where millions are already suffering from malnutrition because of the diversion of crops into biofuels. The growing discouragement of the cheapest source of electricity, namely fossil fuels, is another burden borne disproportionately by the poor in underdeveloped counties.

Some of President Trump's views on climate change appear nuttier than Prince Charles's

In short, the Prince's demand for further action is politically controversial and potentially divisive. Highly privileged as he is, he apparently spares little thought for the less exalted victims of the changes he advocates. How are the Third World poor to become richer if they are weighed down by such punitive costs? Moreover, by entering the political arena so unabashedly he risks crossing swords with President Donald Trump, against whose views on immigration he unleashed a barely concealed attack only a month ago.

It is perfectly true that some of Trump's stated views on climate change seem even nuttier than Prince Charles's. In one of his daftest tweets, he suggested last November that 'the concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make US manufacturing non-competitive'.

The difference is that whereas the new President surely can't believe such rubbish, Prince Charles undoubtedly has complete faith in all his prophecies of impending doom as a consequence of climate change, as well as in his stringent would-be remedies.

Trump, of course, has appointed several climate-change sceptics to his Cabinet, including his energy secretary, Rick Perry, who averred in 2011 that global warming was an unproven scientific theory.

The Prince has every right to try to change the President's mind in private when he meets him, as he seems likely to do within the next few months. But he shouldn't be making public statements that could be seen as inflammatory.

I realise he has strong views on all sort of subjects, and it would probably be asking too much of such an intelligent and opinionated man to take a total vow of silence. But as he gets closer to succession, he increasingly risks the vaunted neutrality of the monarchy by wading so unapologetically into such controversial waters.

And it is not just members of the new American administration who may be perplexed. Millions of his future subjects may be aghast that the future king should proselytize so apocalyptically on a subject as complex as climate change.

The Queen's genius has been to keep us guessing as to most of her views. None of us knows what she thinks about the seriousness of climate change. If only there were someone on this earth who could induce our overzealous Prince to sometimes keep his mouth shut.