Chris Evans producer reveals how she saved £2,000 on bills
Radio 2 DJ Chris Evans revealed this morning how his producer 'Miss Ellie' saved a whopping £2,078 on her household bills this weekend - simply by threatening to leave her service providers.

The radio producer - real name Ellie Davis - shared with listeners how she has made the dramatic savings, saying she was feeling very 'smug' after spending a few hours over the weekend tackling her life admin.

Evans told viewers: 'Miss Ellie rang around her service providers this weekend and saved a whopping £2,078 pounds and that's after tax.'

Scroll down for video

Is that NPower? Chris Evans, pictured last week, was hugely impressed by the negotiating skills of his producer Ellie 'Miss Ellie' Davis who slashed the cost of her bills

Ellie Davis, pictured right with Chris Evans, spent a few hours over the weekend haggling down her household bills - and stunned listeners with the savings made

Evans, 50, was clearly impressed with his producers' effort and asked for listeners to call in with their own financial wins.

He told his breakfast show audience that Miss Ellie had been 'ringing around' and that her phone manner was 'very persuasive', something the show used to its advantage when trying to book celebrity guests.

Via Evans - and a grilling from the rest of the breakfast team including Lynn Bowles and Vassos Alexander - it emerged that the substantial savings had been made with just seven phone calls, as the producer threatened to cancel her existing contracts with household service providers unless they agreed to cut the price of her monthly bills.

When Evans opened it up to listeners to share their similarly savvy saving experiences, plenty of people said they'd preserved precious funds by taking the same approach.

GET SMUG TOO! HOW TO HAGGLE DOWN CAR INSURANCE Haggling is generally not a very 'British' thing to do but it can work and could make a substantial dent to your insurance costs. The best way to go about haggling is to be organised and confident. The best time to start looking is when you're coming up to renewal. Check the major comparison sites to see if you can find a cheaper deal and look at insurers not listed on them. Once you've found the best price, go back to your existing insurer and ask it to lower the quote it's given you for the next year. Tell it you would like to cancel your policy if it's not willing to match or lower the quote. Most likely it will drop the price but if it doesn't you're free to leave. You can also ask it to throw in extras if it's not willing to lower the price, such as free breakdown cover. You can haggle even if you're not at renewal but there may be admin charges to leave for cancelling your contract early. If this is the case, work out how much you'll need to pay in charges, if it's minimal compared to the saving you'll make switching then it may be worth doing.

Miss Ellie was eventually 'outsmugged' by Alison in Harrogate, who told viewers that research into old pensions and life insurance policies had seen her unearth a huge £90,700 pot of cash she hadn't realised was there.

Via text, she said: 'I spent two days last week researching old pensions and life insurance policies from the last 25 years and found £24,000 in pensions and £66,200 in life insurance - I was unaware of them and they are still current.'

Evans implored the general public to do the same, saying: 'Dedicate half a day of the weekend and threaten to leave them [service providers].'