Lee Watson has diamonds in cleavage at Alan Border Medal
She's a sports reporter, wife of former test cricket captain and mother-of-two.

And Lee Watson (nee Furlong) was set for one sparkling night as she supported her husband Shane Watson at the Allan Border Medal at The Star in Sydney.

The 30-year-old blonde beauty flaunted her fit physique in a navy gown as she made her way down the blue carpet but all eyes were on her diamond encrusted cleavage.

Scroll down for video

Sparkling evening: Lee Watson was set for sparkling evening with a diamond choker and body chain leaving diamonds in her cleavage as she sported plunging navy gown to the Allan Border Medal event in Sydney on Monday

The plunging Solace London gown was styled with a delicate silver body chain, featuring a diamond snake pendant sitting in the centre of her chest.

Lee further glammed up her evening look with a sparkly choker by luxury jewellers House of K'Dor.

The Fox Sports presenter accessorised with black stilettos and a bejewelled clutch, which tied into her statement neckpiece.

Party front and back: The blonde beauty's evening look also featured a backless design in addition to the plunging neckline and added a bejewelled clutch to complement her look

The children sports advocate kept hair and make-up her look simple and chic wearing her blown-out luscious locks in tousled waves and sporting a nude lip and subtle smoky eye.

Meanwhile her cricketer husband looked dapper in his tuxedo and bow-tie.

Shane has previously won the coveted Allan Border medal in 2010 and 2011.

Loved up: The couple recently collaborated with original Yellow Wiggle Greg Page to launch a kids sports clinic combining music and sports called 'Let's Activate'

Recently Lee and Shane collaborated with original Yellow Wiggle Greg Page to launch a kids sports clinic combining music and sports called 'Let's Activate'.

'I am incredibly passionate about this,' Shane said in a report by The Daily Telegraph.

'We want to be able to give the next generation an early start and athletic skills and that's for their health but most importantly so they have fun doing it,' he added.