Gladys Berejiklian is NSW's first female Liberal premier
Gladys Berejiklian has become the 45th Premier of New South Wales after being elected unopposed by the Liberal Party.

The unmarried and childless daughter of Armenian migrants promised to go 'harder' than her predecessor Mike Baird as the state's first female Liberal premier.

This will make the treasurer the 45th premier of NSW, following Mr Baird's surprise retirement from politics to be with his unwell sister Julia Baird, an ABC television presenter.

The party's chief whip Chris Patterson told a large media scrum Ms Berejiklian, 46, had been confirmed as the new leader, with 33-year-old father-of-four Dominic Perrottet her Liberal deputy.

Scroll down for video

Gladys Berejiklian (left) arrived at the Liberal Party room vote at Parliament House on Monday

Gladys Berejiklian will be following in the footsteps of outgoing premier Mike Baird (right) with Dominic Perrottet (centre) her Liberal deputy

Gladys Berejiklian is set to become the 45th Premier of New South Wales on Monday

Ms Berejiklian will become the state's second female premier when she is sworn in on Monday afternoon and takes the government to the next election, which is being held in March 2019.

Wearing a black dress, a gold necklace and pearl earrings, she brushed aside a suggestion that being childless and unmarried was a disadvantage.

'Dominic Perrottet has made up for me, he has four kids,' she said of her newly-elected deputy in her first media conference as Liberal leader on Monday.

She had promised to 'go harder' on upgrading hospitals, schools and sports grounds and is likely to review a number of the Baird government's political liabilities like forced council mergers in an earlier interview.

The daughter of Armenian migrants will become the first female Liberal premier of NSW

The member for Willoughby, on Sydney's lower North Shore, also acknowledged the growing popularity of Pauline Hanson's One Nation and the unpopularity of forced council amalgamations.

In her first media conference as Liberal leader, she vowed to govern for everyone.

'I am not going to judge anybody on their personal circumstances,' she told reporters.

'I am here to govern for everybody and I hope that people judge me on my merits and what I can do.'

Ms Berejiklian, a moderate in the Liberal Party, will become Australia's first ever conservative female premier 14 years after entering parliament.

Gladys Berejiklian is taking over from Mike Baird (pictured) who quit politics for family reasons

'If you asked me 20 years ago would my life look like this - it probably wouldn't be how it looks like,' she said.

'But I am grateful for the opportunities I have had.'

Mr Perrottet will score her old treasury job.

Nationals leader John Barilaro will remain as Deputy Premier.

Health Minister Jillian Skinner, 72, and Community Services Minister Brad Hazzard, 65, are both tipped to be replaced by their younger colleagues.

Asked if she was prepared for the type of questioning faced by former prime minister Julia Gillard, she purposefully retorted: 'Sure, ask me one.'

The Member for Willoughby on Sydney's lower North Shore acknowledges One Nation's popularity

FEMALE LEADERS Rosemary Follett, Chief Minister of the ACT: May 1989 to December 1989 Carmen Lawrence, Premier of Western Australia: February 1990 to February 1993 Joan Kirner, Premier of Victoria: August 1990 to October 1992 Kate Carnell, Chief Minister of the ACT: March 1995 to October 2000 Clare Martin, Chief Minister of the Northern Territory: August 2001 to November 2007 Anna Bligh, Premier of Queensland: September 2007 to March 2012 Kristina Keneally, Premier of NSW: December 2009 to March 2011 Julia Gillard, Prime Minister of Australia: June 2010 to June 2013 Lara Giddings, Premier of Tasmania: January 2011 to March 2014 Katy Gallagher, Chief Minister of the ACT: May 2011 to December 2014 Annastacia Palaszczuk, Premier of Queensland: February 2015 to present

Like Ms Gillard, Ms Berejiklian is unmarried and childless and is opposed by conservative Sydney radio 2GB broadcaster Alan Jones.

She is taking over as the 45th Premier of NSW only three days after Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th President of the United States.

No other Liberal MP ran to become premier which made the treasurer and former transport minister a shoo-in for the leadership.

She will be the first woman to run NSW since Labor's U.S.-born Kristina Keneally lost the 2011 election.

Ms Berejiklian will also be the first female to head a conservative government in Australia since Kate Carnell quit as the Liberal chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory in 2000.

She will join Queensland's Annastacia Palaszczuk, who is also childless, as the only incumbent female state or territory leaders.

Her predecessor Mr Baird, the son of former NSW transport minister and federal MP Bruce Baird, had been in the job for two years and nine months.

Like former PM Julia Gillard, Gladys Berejiklian (pictured) is childless, unmarried and opposed by conservative broadcaster Alan Jones

Ms Keneally said she had no advice for Ms Berejiklian but urged the media to restrain reporting on her shoes, hair and dress.

She described Ms Berejiklian as an experienced political operator who understood the gender dynamics of NSW politics.

'I am confident she knows exactly what it means to be a woman in the NSW bearpit,' Ms Keneally wrote in The Guardian on Monday.