Julie Snook wears white on the Allan Border red carpet
Earlier this month her Channel Nine colleague Amber Sherlock threw a tantrum because she was wearing a similar white ensemble to her own during a Nine News Now segment.

But a defiant Julie Snook has given the 'side eye' to the whole 'jacketgate' scandal by stepping out on the Allan Border Medal 'blue carpet' in a dress that is very close in colour to white.

The sports reporter was all smiles as she helmed Channel Nine's red carpet coverage from Sydney's The Star on Monday, but was adamant her dress wasn't as it seemed, telling The Daily Telegraph: 'It’s definitely not white... it's more rose gold'.

Scroll down for video

'It’s definitely not white... it's more rose gold': Julie Snook stepped out on the blue carpet at the Allan Border Medal in Sydney on Monday night wearing a light coloured gown just weeks after one of her outfits caused a fight on-set

The sports reporter again mentioned Amber was a 'good friend', telling the publication: 'We’ve been having a good laugh about it, we’re really good friends'.

And the blonde beauty says the whole incident hasn't put her off wearing the colour of the season on-air again in the near future, admitting: 'I love it, I always wear it'.

'Jacketgate' kicked off earlier this month when leaked behind-the-scenes footage showed the Julie and Amber in near-identical white outfits.

Amber, 41, scolded Julie Snook, 29, because she forgot to change, saying: 'I told you about this two-and-a-half hours ago!'

And it appears the network is still in damage control mode, declining interview requests with Julie ahead of cricket's night of nights, the Allan Border Medal, the the Herald Sun reported on Saturday.

The prestigious event recognises the stand-out cricketer of the past season, with voting cast by peers, the media and umpires.

All smiles: The defiant reporter was all smiles as she sported a cut-out pale gown with an embroidered top and flowing skirt

She's back: The sports reporter helmed Channel Nine's red carpet coverage of the event at Sydney's The Star, on Monday after an absence

Whitegate: The scandal kicked off when leaked behind-the-scenes footage showed the newsreaders in near-identical white outfits as Amber scolded Julie Snook, 29, because she forgot to change, saying: 'I told you about this two-and-a-half hours ago!'

Wardrobe meltdown! Julie (L) made headlines this month when her Channel Nine colleague Amber Sherlock (C) demanded she change into a black jacket before a live TV appearance

While all eyes were on Julie, there was abundance of beautiful people in attendance, including David and Candice Warner.

The first couple of cricket cut fine figures on the blue carpet, with Candice donning a lavish, glittering beaded gown and matching bling.

Australian team captain, Steve Smith, posed proudly alongside girlfriend Dani Willis.

The blonde beauty wasn't shy about flashing the flesh, donning a plunging white gown with geometric cut out detailing front and back.

Glittering: David and Candice Warner cut fine figures on the blue carpet, with Candice donning a lavish, glittering beaded gown and matching bling

Captain! Australian team captain Steve Smith proudly posed with girlfriend Dani Willis

White on the mark! The blonde beauty wasn't shy about flashing the flesh, donning a plunging white gown with geometric cut out detailing front and back

Meanwhile, mother-of-two Lee Watson almost outshone husband Shane Watson on the blue carpet with a glittering display in her cleavage.

Wearing a body chain with a diamond pendant sitting perfectly between her breasts and with a second sparkling choker around her neck, the TV presenter put on a glamorous display.

The 30-year-old donned a plunging and backless navy floor-length dress as she posed alongside her cricketer beau.

Sparkler: Shane and Lee Watson attended, with Lee looking classically glam in a backless blue gown and sparkling diamond choker

Sexy mama: The 30-year-old mother-of-two donned a plunging and backless navy floor-length dress as she posed alongside her cricketer beau

Semi-formal: Glenn McGrath and wife Sara Leonardi McGrath looked classy, although a little more casual than some other guests

Winter vibes: Sara donning a flirty short grey lace dress with long sleeves, which was paired with wine-coloured lipstick and a matching purse, giving her ensemble a more winter look than summer feel

Glenn McGrath and wife Sara Leonardi McGrath looked classy, although a little more casual than some other guests.

Sara donning a flirty short grey lace dress with long sleeves, which was paired with wine-coloured lipstick and a matching purse, giving her ensemble a more winter look than summer feel.

Usman Khawaja brought fiance Rachel McLellan who looked Oscar worthy in a nude-coloured gown with pearl detailing, layers of organza and a long train.

Stephanie and Chadd Sayers also attended, Stephanie glowing in an ashen grey-blue down with plunging neckline and her brunette hair styled in soft waves.

Stunning! Usman Khawaja brought fiance Rachel McLellan who looked Oscar worthy in a nude-coloured gown with pearl detailing and a long train

Travis Head attended with Jessica Davies who looked ethereal in a flowing ice blue gown with metallic embroidery in the shape of ferns.

The blonde beauty kept the rest of her look simple to ensure the dress was centre of attention.

John Hastings and wife Briana attended, and Briana opted for a chic see-through sea-green jumpsuit, as an alternative to the traditional gown.

Briana paired the wavy pattern outfit with emerald earrings but largely kept her look simple, including pulling her hair back into a messy ponytail, to ensure all eyes remained on her dramatic outfit.

Stunners: Stephanie and Chadd Sayers also attended, Stephanie glowing in an ashen grey-blue down with plunging neckline and her brunette hair in soft waves

A fairytale: Travis Head attended with Jessica Davies who looked ethereal in a flowing ice blue gown with metallic embroidery in the shape of ferns

Fresh and flirty: John Hastings and wife Briana attended, and Briana opted for a chic see-through sea-green jumpsuit, as an alternative to the traditional gown

Peter Handscomb brought long-term girlfriend Sarah Ray, with the couple wearing matching black ensembles.

Sarah's ruffled floor-length gown accentuated her figure and showed a glimpse of her cleavage with its sweetheart neckline.

Aaron Finch and fiance Amy Griffiths attended, with Amy donning a black off the shoulder dress with racy leather corset detailing at her waist.

Adam Zampa attended with Harriet Palmer who looked stunning in a flowing blue and white stripped dress which flowed around her as she turned.

Blacked out: Peter Handscomb brought long-term girlfriend Sarah Ray, with the couple wearing matching black ensembles

Tied up: Aaron Finch and fiance Amy Griffiths attended, with Amy in a black off the shoulder dress with racy leather corset detailing at her waist

Nautical: Adam Zampa attended with Harriet Palmer who looked stunning in a flowing blue and white stripped dress which flowed around her as she turned

Patrick Cummins attended with Becky Boston who wore a slinky blush-toned silken gown, which featured a neckline to her navel.

While Calum Ferguson attended with Rhiannon Eglinton on his arm.

The brunette beauty looked stunning in a strapless gown with high fashion panelling and lace detail, along with a structured peplum waist for dramatic effect.

Mathew and Julia Wade made a glam pair, with Julia in a high neck vintage inspired white gown with a long train and dark lipstick.

Pale gowns rule: Patrick Cummins attended with Becky Boston who wore a slinky blush-toned silken gown, which featured a neckline to her navel

Dramatic look: The brunette beauty looked stunning in a strapless gown with high fashion panelling and lace detail, along with a structured peplum waist for dramatic effect

Goth glam: Mathew and Julia Wade made a glam pair, with Julia in a high neck vintage inspired white gown with a long train and dark lipstick

James Faulkner and Brianna Sheppard also looked slick, with the gorgeous blonde in a strapless bright red gown.

Despite the high neck, the designer dress showed plenty of skin, with a thigh-high split as well as cut-out detailing around the waist.

The blonde beauty swept her ash blonde locks back for full-effect, with some loose tendrils shaping her face.