W Magazine Says No Plans To Work With Terry Richardson
At the annual American Society of Magazine Editors meeting on Wednesday, W Magazine editor Stefano Tonchi told BuzzFeed that he had no plans to work with Terry Richardson in the future.

A number of models have come forward since 2004 with allegations of sexual assault and harassment against Richardson. At least three models have accused Richardson of sexual misconduct in 2014 alone. Richardson has denied these allegations, writing recently that he never “used an offer of work or a threat of rebuke to coerce someone into something that they did not want to do.”

W last worked with Richardson in 2011. Tonchi, who said he “knows Richardson socially,” was photographed by him that same year for a book by Opening Ceremony.

“He didn’t ask me to get naked or anything,” Tonchi joked, before addressing the allegations against Richardson.

“I have a very personal relationship with all of my photographers, and I have a great team who I love working with,” Tonchi said, specifically pointing to his collaborations with photographers Juergen Teller, Steven Meisel, Paulo Roversi, and Steven Klein, who was honored at the International Center of Photography’s Infinity Awards earlier this week.

“I have spent time with them on set and know them well,” said Tonchi. “I don’t know Richardson well enough to make any judgment. I would need to spend time with him on set and observe his behaviors before I worked with him again.”

Editors from Vanity Fair, GQ, and New York Magazine who attended Wednesday’s event indicated that they may still work with Richardson.

James Reginato from Vanity Fair said that the magazine “had not worked with Richardson extensively in the past,” but made no comment on future plans.

Eric Sullivan from GQ, who hired Richardson to shoot for its March 2014 issue, said he was not sure if the magazine had any upcoming projects with Richardson.

New York magazine’s editor-in-chief Adam Moss expressed a similar sentiment. When asked about the publication’s future with Richardson, Moss responded: “I don’t know that I have an answer to that question.”