CPAC 2014: Live Updates, Schedule, Speakers and Best Moments
HUCKABEE PORTRAYS OBAMA AS A FOREIGN POLICY FAILURE



ABC’s MICHAEL FALCONE: As the United States and Russia butt heads over Ukraine, Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and unsuccessful presidential candidate turned Fox News host, offered a scathing critique of the Obama administration’s national security strategy on Friday.



Speaking on the second day of the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, Huckabee declared that in the second term of the Obama presidency there is “not one country anywhere with whom we have a better relationship than we did before.”



“No one trusts us, no one listens to us, no one respects us and no one fears us,” he complained.



And when it comes to the Russian leader whose provocative actions in Ukraine have flummoxed the White House foreign policy team, Huckabee quipped, “The only time Vladimir Putin shivers is when he has his shirt off in a cold Russian winter.”



Huckabee added that Israel, a country he called America’s “one true ally,” has been “incredibly mistreated” by the Obama administration.



“It is the duty and responsibility of the American government to make us safer and more secure not less,” he said.



Huckabee, who said in December that he was not closing the door on a 2016 presidential run, fit in a mild jab at former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton who under intense questioning from members of Congress about the terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya once told lawmakers: “What difference at this point does it make?”



“With all due respect to Hillary Clinton,” Huckabee said in his speech to the conservative gathering, “it does make a difference.”



The former pastor, who competed for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008, threaded his speech with biblical references -- even though, he noted, talking about God in America is not always “politically correct.”



“A nation that can remember him will be a nation that will be remembered by him,” he said.