Completely
Photo

MONDAY PUZZLE — Have you ever started solving a crossword puzzle and felt like you could predict the outcome? As you solve more crosswords, being able to predict a theme becomes more likely. It’s just not that often that you predict that a given puzzle might blow The New York Times’s standards out of the water. That was my experience today, but that experience probably says more about my own state of mind than the theme.

John Wrenholt makes his New York Times Crossword debut today and he offers us a clever theme that shows us all the WAYs a constructor can freak me out.

Today’s Theme

I solved this one from top to bottom, so I read the theme entries in order. It was delightful when I uncovered 17A’s ONE WAY OR ANOTHER, because it made me think of the Blondie hit:

Next, I happily wrote in TWO WAY RADIO for 30A’s “Walkie-talkie.”

And that’s when it suddenly occurred to me that I didn’t necessarily want to know what the THREE WAY entry might be. Fortunately, cooler minds obviously prevailed and the answer is the very innocent THREE WAY TIE.

It took a moment for the penny to drop for the revealer at 63A, but I really liked it when I got it: If you add up all those WAYs, you get SIX of them, which gives us the very lively SIX WAYS TO SUNDAY.

Tricky Clues

■ 1A: “Penny Dreadful” was a British horror series that was shown on Showtime, or SHO.

■ 42A: Is UVEA tough for a Monday puzzle? It comes up quite a bit, and has appeared in The New York Times Crossword 236 times across the entire week. It’s a good bit of anatomy to know.

■ 13D: A tough clue for a Monday, as opposed to the British spelling for “tire,” but I’ll chalk this one up to wanting a fresh clue for TYRE.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Constructor’s Notes

When I told my wife that I was going to attempt to construct a puzzle for publication in The New York Times, I’m sure she thought “No WAY.” But I was determined and even after some rejections, I tried every WAY I could think of to come up with a creative and original theme. Can you believe that I submitted a puzzle that incorporated a haiku about poison ivy? It was rejected (rightfully so) with a note that read: “We thought the idea was interesting and different, but we ultimately felt that having a whole theme based on a malady like poison ivy would be a little too unpleasant.” It was time to try a new WAY of thinking. I got the idea for this theme when a game of cards ended in a THREE-WAY TIE. It seemed like it would be a good seed word to build a theme around. First, I checked the database on XWord Info to see if it had ever appeared in a New York Times puzzle before. It had not, although THREE-WAY TIE does appear on Jeff Chen’s supplemental word list. Looking through the same database turned up TWO-WAY RADIO and I knew a bunch of ONE WAY phrases, so now I needed to find an interesting FOUR-WAY word. The only option seemed to be FOUR WAY STOP SIGN. Then an “Aha!” moment occurred and I realized that 1 + 2 + 3 = SIX WAYS TO SUNDAY would work and also act as a revealer. I hope that everyone is able to find a WAY to enjoy this puzzle!

Welcome, Mr. Wrenholt.

Your thoughts?