Dynamic Sequence
Photo

WEDNESDAY PUZZLE — When you do something every day, surprises tend to be few and far between. Solving crosswords day in and day out gives you insight into what is expected of you as a solver, but there’s a trade-off: the “Aha!” moments are fewer and it takes more “oomph” in the entries to really float your boat.

I’m a fairly positive person by nature, so I look at this as a kind of gift. When I stumble upon a theme, entry or clue that is just fabulous, I reckon that I get a bigger thrill out of it. That was the case today when I solved 23A’s “Boyfriend after a breakup, perhaps” and realized that the entry was the awesome REBOUND GUY. I don’t know why that cracked me up as much as it did, but boy, did I get my shot of dopamine over that answer.

What surprised me was that REBOUND GUY wasn’t a New York Times debut. It has appeared once before in a Brad Wilber puzzle from 2010. That tickled me even more. The concept of REBOUND GUY has been around forever — think Scarlett O’Hara and Charles Hamilton — but the next guy one latches onto after a breakup — bad idea or not — is enough of a thing that it has a name and has appeared in The New York Times crossword. Twice.

Anyway, Matthew Sewell is less concerned with that today than he is about making a basket. March Madness is coming up, so perhaps Mr. Sewell is practicing his moves.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Today’s Theme

I don’t follow basketball, but one of the aspects that I appreciate about it is that it sets up and resolves plays quickly.

Mr. Sewell illustrates this by making a FAST BREAK in the first word of five theme entries: BLOCK, REBOUND, PASS, DRIBBLE and SHOOT. I have to say that I loved DRIBBLE GLASS almost as much as I loved REBOUND GUY.

Tricky Clues

■ 21D: The SÛRETÉ is indeed the name of the civil police force in French-speaking countries, particularly the department of criminal investigation. If you are wondering where you have heard that word, think Inspector Clouseau of the Pink Panther movies.

Constructor’s Notes