New York Reactions to Trump Inauguration: Fear and Prayer
It made for an odd Inauguration Day in the city.

At the time of the swearing-in, Moe Muscati, 24, the general manager of Phone Works & Company in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, kept waiting on customers. Not only did he deliberately ignore the inauguration, but he said he was not going to watch anything at all related to the president for the next four years.

While Mr. Trump was repeating the famous words, Christophe Laudamiel, 47, a master perfumer who lives in Chelsea, was riding in a cab going to the West Village. Noticing the time, Mr. Laudamiel asked the driver if he minded sharing a moment of silence.

“I thought about all the marginalized people who have been disenfranchised, despised and laughed upon,” Mr. Laudamiel said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Toby’s Estate Coffee in Williamsburg was packed, customers busy with books and laptops. Yet most of them were uninterested in the doings in Washington.

Sam Fraiberger, 33, watched on his phone until it “started to be scary.”

Mr. Fraiberger’s former girlfriend Nina Assaf, 35, a writer, sat next to him, snatching glimpses.

“It doesn’t seem like it’s real,” she said.

Across the table, Dan Ramirez, 39, called the new president “a woefully self-serving individual.”

Photo

Dougie Robbins, 27, was preparing to open the Dive Bar Lounge, a watering hole on 10th Avenue favored by a gay clientele. A television played as he arranged the chairs and wiped down counters in the empty room. He remained stoic until Mr. Trump stepped to the lectern. And then Mr. Robbins began to cry.

“It’s like I know it’s happening but I don’t want to accept it,” he said. “I’m terrified by everything that could happen.”

The reaction to the day’s event was, perhaps, expected. After all, Hillary Clinton had received 79 percent of the city’s votes. Mr. Trump had pockets of strength here and there, but the only borough where he prevailed in the election was Staten Island.

So in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx, inside her family’s La Morada restaurant, Yajaira Saavedra, 28, kept the TV off in solidarity with those protesting the new president. A couple of patrons came in and asked her to put on the inauguration, so she did. She glanced up at the proceedings and echoed Mr. Robbins’s response. “I just want to cry,” she said.

In the Sunset Park area of Brooklyn, at the L&H Computer repair shop, Sam Ni, 39, listened to a live stream on a computer as he worked. Speaking in Mandarin, he said that he liked Mr. Trump but that, in that heavily Chinese neighborhood, there was not much interest in the inauguration.

Photo

“A lot of people here can’t see the value of watching today,” he said.

Mr. Ni referred to a common Chinese saying to explain the indifference: The sky is so high; the emperor is so far away.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even in Mr. Trump’s native borough, life pretty much just went on as normal. At the Goodfellas Diner in Maspeth, where the ceremony was unspooling on the TV screens, most of the patrons simply ate.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

One table was divided, like the nation. Steve Papas, 39, a transit worker, was having a cheeseburger with two friends while watching.

“He’s one of us,” Mr. Papas said. “Look at what he did for himself and his family. If he can apply that to the country, that would be great. “

He was taping the inauguration at home so he could watch it again later.

His friend Steve Romeo, 63, a former transit worker from nearby Woodhaven, said, “None of the other politicians ever said anything good about fixing the country.”

Photo

But the third man at the table, Miguel Moctezuma, 55, was having none of it. “Trump is a bully,” he said. “When I watch him, it’s a joke. He is not serious like a president should be.”

On Staten Island, some New Yorkers supported the president without compunction. At W’s Bar and Restaurant in the Tottenville section, the owners, Arlene and Charlie Wonsowicz, dressed up their place in stars-and-stripes ribbons and bunting. Mr. Wonsowicz wore a bright matching tie.

Ms. Wonsowicz, 68, said she could not remember feeling so excited about an inauguration since John F. Kennedy was sworn in.

As Mr. Trump took the oath, Mr. Wonsowicz, 70, stood straight. The several people in the bar applauded.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not far away, at Mikey Bagels, Mary Afflitto, 68, a retired health care worker, stopped in after Mass for a coffee and a mini-bagel, as well as to catch the inauguration. She dislikes the new president, she said.

The day reminded her of a bad moment in her life. “Thirty-three years ago, I was divorced; I was left with little kids,” she said. “I didn’t want that, but I had to accept it, just like this.”

So at church, she devoted the morning to praying for Mr. Trump.

“I pray for him; I pray he gets it right,” she said. “It’s the first time I can say I’m really, really scared. I pray for him.”