Mother Kills 3-Year-Old Daughter Because She Was Tired Of Potty Training Her


A Pennsylvanian mother who was charged in connection with the death of her three-year-old daughter will remain in jail.

Adriene Williams, 27, of Wilkinsburg is facing charges that she asphyxiated her little girl after she became angry about helping the toddler clean herself after using the toilet.

She was arraigned on Wednesday on criminal homicide, endangering the welfare of child, tampering with evidence and abuse of a corpse in the death of her daughter Adrionna.

According to an arrest warrant, Williams was allegedly struggling with the demands of being a single mom and suffocated her daughter.

She is also alleged to have constantly used a loud voice with her daughter and told her she didn’t want to play with her the day she took Adrionna to her grandmother’s home.

Additionally, she kept a notebook in her car, writing: ‘This single parent (expletive) is stressful, hard as (expletive). I hate that I’m doing it on my own. I’ve been struggling hard.’

She was taken into custody around 3 p.m. Tuesday and held in the Allegheny County Jail, without bail until her July 17 preliminary hearing.

According to police, Adrionna’s family had reported her missing on June 14.

A dog walker found the little girl’s body just before 8 p.m. She was lying on her back in a wooded ravine off Chalmers Way in Swissvale.

Police linked evidence from the location that Adrionna’s body was found to paperclips and mud found in Adriene Williams’ car.

The entire community rallied together in an attempt to find the child after she went missing and her mother also joined them in the search.

Williams had taken to Facebook to ask people to come forward with any leads they had on her daughter’s disappearance.

Williams is set to undergo a psychiatric evaluation while in custody, WPXI reports. She is also on suicide watch.

However, she showed no emotion as she was led from the court by police on Tuesday afternoon.

But neighbors said they were not shocked to hear about Williams’ arrest.

Wendy Staples, a neigbour told WPXI-TV: ‘You can’t abuse kids today because the first thing you going to do, you going to jail. You get in trouble.

‘She probably didn’t mean to do that to her daughter, but it happens.’