Nugent: “I Don’t Hate Black People, They Just Have A Skin Disease That Affects Their Behavior”
While speaking this week with conservative radio host Joe Pags, National Rifle Association board member and musician Ted Nugent declared that anyone who doesn’t like him must hate America and everything the country stands for. “There’s nothing more anti-American than the freaks that hate me,” Nugent said, after going on a rant against Hillary Clinton and “Bernie Mao Zedong Sanders.” “As the freaks hate me, I go, ‘Man, I really am right all the time,’” he said.

“Like, take black people, for example,” the Motor City Madman then turned to African Americans. “You’ve got these people, right, and they’re always on about oppression and racial inequality. And they’re flat out lying. Because I’ve never seen a race of people that has so much in common with white folks, and at the same time, hates their guts. You can’t tell me that’s good for this country.”

Nugent also argued that “African Americans in this country have an urge to blend in with white people.” “There’s poor white people and also poor black people. There’s rich white people, and then there’s also rich black people. We’ve had white presidents for two hundred years, now we’ve even got a half-white president, whose other half is black. And we had to do it that way because a full-on, completely black president would have been too much. Doing it step by step, in parts, was much safer. If that’s not equality, I don’t know what is.”

He continued, “And you or anybody else can hate me all you want for saying it out loud. The truth is, I don’t care what anybody thinks, and also, have you noticed how some of the most hated people today are the ones who are telling the truth straight up and without hesitation? Take Donald Trump, for example. The man has been calling out a ton of chickensh*ts and cowards since he started running for president, and Obama’s one of them. I mean, just like Hillary Clinton and the rest of the Democrats, but that’s not the point right now. And the people recognize that, that’s why they trust him.”

“And Obama is also on Trump’s assassination list. Because not only is he half-black, which proves my aforementioned point, but he’s also Muslim. And I don’t care what he says he is, the fact is he’s not fooling anyone. So, therefore, I don’t hate black people. At all. They are people too, just like us. And I recognize that. They just have this weird, permanent skin disease which somehow affects their behavior. And they lie. Like, really a lot. And that’s the part that bothers me. To be quite honest, I kind of even feel sorry for them a little bit,” Nugent said.