Fischer: “Obama Behind NC Liberal Mess Because He Wants Michelle To Be Able To Use Women’s Restrooms”
Among the Religious Right activists reacting calmly to a reported Obama administration directive on transgender rights in schools was American Family Radio’s Bryan Fischer, who said that the move showed that President Obama is “doing the devil’s work” and that it might prompt Texas to secede from the Union. “So, again, I want to be clear, I’m not saying President Obama is the devil,” he said. “But is he doing the devil’s work? Yes.”

A slightly different reaction came from Info Wars’ Alex Jones, who questioned Michelle Obama’s gender, following the popular conspiracy theory. Started by late comedian Joan Rivers, the rumor was put forward by Jones, a known conspiracy theorist. Jones even called in during Fischer’s segment and asked him to comment on the “fact that President Obama seems strangely committed to making sure transgender people have more rights than normal people.”

“It’s very simple, Alex,” Fischer fired away almost immediately, not even waiting for Jones to finish his question. “It’s because it can be a pain in the butt when you have a transgender wife. Because, when they visit the great state of North Carolina, Michelle Obama has to use men’s restrooms because of the latest legislation. And, you know, that can be kind of embarrassing when you’re the First Lady. So, instead of addressing the issue head on by admitting he’s married to a transgender woman, the President is hiding behind the so-called rights of transgender people as a whole.”

He added, “And that’s why you’ve got that whole North Carolina mess right now. He controls the liberal media, so he’s under the impression that he pretty much can do whatever he wants. I mean, on one hand, you kind of have to have sympathy for the guy. Nobody knows what really happened there. Maybe he fell in love and wasn’t aware Michelle was transgender, maybe she kept it a secret. Then again, maybe she didn’t and he knew all along. Also, there’s the option that he might have liked it when he finally found out, and decided to use it as an excuse to spice things up in the bedroom. It can be a number of things.”

“But, one thing’s for sure – it can’t be easy on him. Nevertheless, that’s no excuse to hide behind other people. And I honestly believe, I want to believe that deep down, our President knows that allowing transgender people to use both kinds of restrooms is just plain wrong. His judgment is probably clouded by his wife, husband, whatever you want to call it. However, when it’s all said and done – there’s no escaping the fact that he’s responsible for what’s going on in North Carolina right now. And he needs to stop doing that. Because it will all be over come November anyway,” Fischer argued.

“But the thing that worries me the most is – now that the truth is out, who’s going to tell his daughters that their mom is actually another dad? I mean, that’s Jerry Springer material right there,” he concluded.