Robertson: “Carson More Qualified Than Obama Because He’s A Real Black Worker, Not A Mulatto Lazy One”
Televangelist Pat Robertson took issue recently with criticism of Ben Carson’s appointment to be the next secretary of housing and urban development, insisting that Democrats shouldn’t attack Carson on the issue because, he claimed, neither President Obama nor Sen. Bernie Sanders had any experience before they ran for president. Responding to a statement on Carson’s nomination from incoming Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, Robertson said that Obama was unqualified to be president since he “never held a job in the private sector,” “learned his organizing skills from a well-known radical who had a handbook for revolutionaries,” and “did next to nothing” in the U.S. Senate.

“Come on, I mean, my late grandmother was more qualified to be President than him,” Robertson argued, adding, “the fact that you went to a fancy school and had a quiet position in the U.S. Senate does not make you qualified to become president, not even remotely. A president is supposed to understand his country far better than what Obama has shown during his term, and that’s because he never had an actual job. He was distant from people and he had no idea how the country works other than the one presented to him by his advisers. He was completely detached from the daily lives of millions of Americans.”

He continued, “On the other hand, Ben Carson is a man who has spent his entire career doing very important jobs, all of which were based on daily contact with other people, most notably, his many patients. Secondly, the man was a neurosurgeon. Now, I don’t know what kind of school you have to finish to be whatever President Obama is – not than anyone really knows, by the way – but I will tell you that medical school is no joke. And not only was Carson intelligent and hardworking enough to graduate from it, but he also went on to have a stellar career in saving people’s lives. And then someone goes and argues that such a man isn’t fit to serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Are you people high on something? ‘Cause it sure looks like it.”

The televangelist also added that the ability to work hard is “a necessity for anyone looking to have anything to do with making decisions in the best interest of this country,” as well as that “Ben Carson has proven time and time again that he “holds a PhD in hard work.” “It’s got to be said loud and clear – he’s a real black worker, that one,” Robertson commented. “Unlike Obama, who is not only a mulatto, but also a pretty lazy one, at that. Sure, he puts in the work where there’s a need to disrespect Donald Trump, but when it comes to solving this country’s problems for the better – he’d rather go on television and claim that ‘this is just the reality in which we all have to live.’ He disgusts me,” Robertson concluded.