Pastor John Piper: "SCOTUS Ruling Is God's Mysterious Way To Avoid Gay Sex"
“Pastor John Piper, the founder and teacher of desiringGod.org and chancellor of Bethlehem College & Seminary in Minneapolis, Minnesota, wrote recently: “In a 5-to-4 decision, the Supreme Court of the United States of America has ruled that states cannot ban same-sex marriage. This is what the highest court in our land did today – knowing these deeds are wrong, yet approving those who practice them.”

“The pastor went on to say that “we do not realize what a calamity is happening around us,” and added, “The new thing – new for America and new for history – is not homosexuality. That brokenness has been here since we were all broken in the fall of man. (And there is a great distinction between the orientation and the act – just like there is a great difference between my orientation to pride and the act of boasting.)”

However, it would seem that several days after the ruling, the pastor felt much more forgiving and even said he “understands, to a certain extent, the need for such a decision by Justice Kennedy,” because “men and women of God’s green earth have become very estranged.”

“To say that I agree with what has been done by the Supreme Court would not be accurate, at least not entirely,” the pastor revealed.

“However, I can say that I’m much more inclined to understand why Justice Kennedy did what he did, especially when I consider what is going on in marriages all around the world today.”

Asked to elaborate, the pastor said: “I am very saddened by the fact that most people lose their desire to enjoy their spouse physically upon entering wedlock. This is a devastating fact that leads to the loss of closeness between people, and more importantly, between spouses. We can be as polite as we want, but the fact to the matter is that sex is key in a marriage. Once people get bored with it, the habit of being around their partners just sort of fades away. Then comes divorce and everything crumbles. What worries me most is the fact that it’s becoming very widespread among Christian couples.”

He added: “However, when it comes to LGBT people, the situation is pretty much the opposite. Therefore, I can say I do sympathize with what Justice Kennedy attempted to do, even though I do not agree with the manner in which he did it. I guess what I’m really saying is – if gays are allowed to marry, that means they’ll have absolutely no sex in their married life, which was the whole point for us Christians. God does work in mysterious ways, after all.”