GOP Candidate Calls Melania Trump To “Sterilize The White House After The Animals’ Departure”
A Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate from Florida repeatedly called President Barack Obama an “animal” during a county GOP meeting last week. Republican candidate Carlos Beruff addressed party members at a St. John’s GOP gathering and accused Obama of destroying America and its military. “Unfortunately, for eight years, this animal we call president, because he’s an animal, OK – eight years, has surgically and with thought and a very smart, intelligent manner, destroyed this country and dismantled the military under not one, not two, but three secretary of defenses,” he said.

This week, Beruff was at it again, this time calling for the new First Lady, Melania Trump, to “sterilize the White House” after the “animals’ departure.” In an interview with KYOT Radio stationed in Orlando, the GOPer argued that President-elect Trump and the new First Lady Melania Trump will have “some serious thinking to do” before they move into the White House in January, as well as that they’d be “wise to sterilize the place” now that the previous president “is getting evicted.”

“I don’t know, if I were Donald Trump, I’d get the top 5 of the best sterilization companies in the country in there and I’d have them clean the place up from top to bottom, just to be on the safe side,” he argued. “I mean, who knows what kind of parasites or infestation those animals left behind, I’m not sure, but I think gorillas tend to carry several diseases that can be lethal to man, especially white man. I’d feel no regret for the money I’d spend on that sort of health insurance decision. Because, I’m not sure how that works for Donald Trump, but somehow I’m not sure he’s got Obamacare, or that he wants it, for that matter.”

He continued, “Therefore, dear Mrs. First Lady, I hereby ask you to take care of that and surprise your husband when the time comes to move into your new home. I know that he’s a powerful man, but it’s up to you to take care of him now that he’s going to have a terrible burden on his back. At the end of the day, I’m not sure about that part of being president, but somehow I don’t get the impression that he has the right to divorce you, now that he’s the most powerful man on the planet and all that. Because, he knows he’ll lose the support of the people if he does that, so you’re pretty much safe in that regard. But, that doesn’t mean you’re not supposed to perform your marital duties.”

“You make sure that the White House is sterilized and that every nook and cranny is checked and then re-checked for any residual bacteria or disease,” Beruff said. “We just got the opportunity to change this country for the better and the last thing we need is for the legacy of the animal president to be the assassination of the next one due to carelessness. We have enough damage from Barack Obama and we don’t need anymore. And that calls for prudence and vigilance, Mrs. Trump. So, you be on the lookout at all times,” he concluded.