Donald Trump will be impeached upon inauguration for fraud and racketeering, report


Donald Trump might have won the 2016 election, but his legal troubles are far from over.

In what could only be described as the political surprise of the century, #Donald Trump has become the next president-elect. #Election 2016 is now in the books, and the United States is at a standstill.

Trump questions

Heading into the 2016 presidential election, the idea of a Trump presidency was met with laughs from millions who never thought it would be possible. Heading into Election Day, all signs pointed to a Hillary Clinton victory. Most polls showed Clinton with a solid lead, prompting the campaign to schedule a firework celebration earlier in the week. As the night went on, the reality began to set in. At around 2:30 a.m. EST, Clinton conceded to Trump via the traditional phone call, and the Republican nominee gave his victory speech. As reported by LawNewz on November 9, Trump might have even more legal problems in his future.

Law Prof Says There is Already Enough Evidence To Impeach Donald Trump https://t.co/GcEl7KOS4B pic.twitter.com/VxWBZCyjLC

— LawNewz (@law_newz) November 9, 2016

LawNewz referenced a 23-page article written earlier this fall by Christopher Lewis Peterson, a law professor at the University of Utah. Peterson argued that it would be “proper” for Congress to impeach Trump, citing Article II of the United States Constitution which gives the right to impeach due to “high crimes and misdemeanors.”

Peterson’s argument is based on the upcoming Trump University fraud case where nearly 5,000 former students from the school filed a lawsuit claiming they were scammed out of as much as $35,000 each. “The illegal acts in Trump’s high pressure wealth seminars have already occurred,” Peterson writes, before adding, “Trump’s alleged actions, if true, constitute fraud and racketeering.”

Trump University fraud suit to go to trial, judge rules https://t.co/z41MW0kqCs via @WSJ

— Ron Watson JD MEd (@superior701) October 31, 2016

Peterson also makes note that the United States Constitution does give Congress the right to impeach a president due to actions that took place before they were elected, stating that they are “well within its legal rights under the Constitution to insist upon a President who is not a fraudster or a racketeer as defined in its own law.”

Moving forward

Despite Peterson’s detailed analysis, it’s unlikely that Trump would be impeached by a Congress that is controlled by his own political party. As far as the #Trump University Trial, it will begin later this month in San Diego, with jury selection taking place on November 28. Represented by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, Trump faces a $40 million lawsuit. The Trump University lawsuit is just one of 75 pending legal actions against Trump, which is the most of any president-elect in the nation’s history.