Trump Blames Canada For Bad U.S. Economy, Demands ‘They Get Their Own Currency’
CANADA is primarily to blame for the current economic climate in the United States, Donald J. Trump has told Sean Hannity this morning.

In a wide-ranging interview to be broadcast Monday, the republican nominee addressed questions on his economic policies, when he mentioned Canada amongst a host of countries that were “totally killing” the U.S. economically.

“We have no money Sean, the people have no money,” Trump told Hannity. “And where is all our money? It’s in China, it’s in Mexico and mainly it’s in Canada.”

“Canada?” the FOX host responded. “How are Canada hurting us?”

“How are Canada hurting us? Are you f**king kidding me?” Trump snapped, as the political commentator sank back in his seat. “All I keep hearing from people is how Canada is doing great, and how much money they have up there. And I keep asking myself, ‘why are we allowing this?’ ”

“I’m sorry Donald, I’m not sure I understand,” the perplexed-looking Hannity replied.

“Sean! Come on!” Trump shouted. “I did my research. They’ve got the dollar up there too you know, our dollar, only they call it the ‘Canadian dollar’, and Obama and ‘Crooked Hilary’ do nothing. It’s an absolute disgrace, I’m telling you.”

Hannity paused for a moment, looked off-screen before turning again to Trump. “But Donald, I believe ah, they actually use a different dollar…”

“Oh Seany boy, you’re so naive,” Trump continued, explaining how it was “time” for Canada to “move on” and “get its own currency”.

“Listen, bottom line, if Canada wants to go around thinking it’s an independent nation then shouldn’t it have its own currency? It’s just common sense.”

Slightly perplexed, Hannity ended the interview by thanking Trump, before he was predictably interrupted. “Hold on a sec, I really should tweet that,” Trump said, removing his phone from his breast pocket, asking, “is Canada spelt with one ‘k’ or two? Hashtag, make the dollar American again.”

Do you agree with Trump? Should Canada really have its own currency? Or is the Canadian Dollar already its own currency and Trump just a dumbass? Join the debate on Facebook and Twitter…