Ringling Bros., WWE Among Sponsors of 2017 Presidential Inauguration
WASHINGTON, D.C. – On January 20, 2017, President-elect Donald J. Trump will be sworn in as Commander-in-Chief on the steps of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. in what is slated to be the most extravagant presidential inauguration in recent history.

“Our intention is to create a very memorable and intoxicating experience for the millions of proud Americans who will make their way to our nation’s capital next month,” said Ryan Clarke, an event coordinator and congressional aide to Senator Roy Blunt (R-Mo), Chairman of the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies. Mr. Clarke sat down with C-SPAN on Wednesday to discuss preparations for the inaugural parade and shed some much-needed light on what spectators can expect to see.

“This year we’ve had the distinct pleasure of working with some really fantastic sponsors,” Clarke said, continuing, “One of our more prominent sponsors is the Ringling Brothers, so if you’re a fan of the circus then you’ve come to the right place.” Clarke said the traveling carnival company will play a major role in the historic ceremony, even going so far as to provide a thirteen-thousand pound elephant which President-elect Trump will ride from the White House to the inaugural ceremony at the Capitol.

“This is the quintessential likeness of the Republican party,” a visibly ecstatic Clarke told C-SPAN. The congressional aide said the president-elect has insisted on riding the enormous animal in lieu of carpooling to the Capitol building with the incumbent president – as is tradition.

“Nothing about this ceremony is going to be traditional and that’s the beauty of it,” said Republican National Committee chairman and incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus. “The American people have endured eight years of tradition and they are sick and tired of it.” Mr. Priebus and the RNC have teamed up with World Wrestling Entertainment, Inc. (WWE) to bring inaugural attendees – and the world – an exclusive one-of-a-kind post-ceremony show on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. Dubbed the “Professional Wrestling Event of the Century” by Pay-Per-View, the special event is set to begin immediately after Donald J. Trump is sworn in as the 45th President of the United States.

“Following the ceremony, the president will exit the inaugural platform and proceed down the Capitol steps to the West Lawn where he will be met by 2016 WWE Heavyweight Champion Triple H,” WWE co-founder Linda McMahon told Fox News host Sean Hannity on Wednesday. The presumptive Small Business Administration secretary went on to say that the “presidential heavyweight” and his WWE counterpart will enter the ring and square off against two stuntmen dressed as President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “Regardless of your feelings on the election, this is going to be an event that no American should miss,” McMahon said.

The fifty-eighth U.S. Presidential Inauguration is set to begin at noon on Friday, January 20, 2017, in Washington, D.C. The Washington Metropolitan Police Department estimates between 800,000 and 1 million people will be present for the ceremony and accompanying parade. Notable attendees include country singer Garth Brooks, former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Russian president Vladimir Putin announced last week that he will not be making an appearance but will instead send Chechen president Ramzan Kadyrov in his place.