Fears Of Airborne Ebola Virus Confirmed True
BREAKING: Only hours after the Wyoming Institute of Technology announced fears that the Ebolavirus may become airborne, a new report is released proving just that. Just one hour ago, the report was made public, verifying that the Ebola mutation is now confirmed to be airborne.

The report shows that the Center for Disease Control has discovered a new mutation of the virus, and that is has been brought to the United States via aircraft travel from Africa, further supporting WIT’s statement earlier today that an Ebola outbreak in the US is imminent.

As stated in this new report, three cases of the mutated virus have already been confirmed by the CDC. WIT recommends that all Americans read the report carefully, and follow all hygienic practices, such as rigorous hand washing. Americans are urged to wear medical safe masks as well, to prevent the spread of the virus.

What we do know, is that airborne viruses are suspended in the air, travelling great distances along air currents, making their spread difficult to control. Airborne viruses are caused by pathogens, and transmit person to person through dust particles in the air, from any kind of microbe, and from bodily fluids.

CDC officials have began work on developing new vaccines against the mutated Ebola strain, but fear they cannot develop a new drug in time. The CDC warns the US that they cannot control how quickly this will spread, and have voiced concern that numerous fatalities may occur before the virus can be contained.

Earlier today (August 8, 2014), media channels announced that a New York City man was admitted to Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, NY with symptoms of the deadly virus. He entered the hospital with a high fever and severe gastrointestinal problems, and according to the hospital was placed under isolation immediately.

It is currently unknown how many others this man may have infected before admitting himself to the hospital. As reported earlier today, symptoms of the Ebola virus include fever, diarrhea, vomiting, and sometimes a hemorrhagic rash. If any American experiences these symptoms, WIT warns them to admit themselves to a hospital for isolation treatment immediately.

Despite numerous reports coming out proving the severity of the virus in the US, the CDC still claims the threat of an outbreak is low. WIT believes the CDC is wrong, and is being conservative to the public to avoid causing hysteria. Americans need to inform themselves about Ebola and be ready for when the outbreak strikes.