Melania Threatens Lawsuit Against “Anyone Who Shares Or Like Claims Of Barron’s Autism Or Me Being An Ex-Porn Star”
The wife of President-elect Donald Trump has retained a lawyer who is threatening a lawsuit against the creator of a YouTube video suggesting that her son has autism, reports TMZ. According to the website, attorney Charles J. Harder is asking that the video, posted by James Hunter, be taken down and that Hunter issue an apology. In a letter from the attorney obtained by TMZ, Harder said that the video implies the 10-year-old is autistic, which the family insists is false.

In an exclusive interview with E! Online, the wife of President-elect Donald Trump also argued that she is considering a lawsuit against “any and all persons who like, share, react to, Tweet, post or further encourage the false claims of Barron’s autism on social media or otherwise.” “I will not tolerate anyone attacking my family, let alone a 10-year-old boy who has wronged no one and has nothing to do with other people’s desire to become famous and popular,” she added. “That’s why this has to stop immediately, and I don’t care how many lawsuits it’s going to take for that to happen.”

“I realized when I first married my husband that I am going to be subjected to far more scrutiny and public interest compared to the attention I was getting when I was a model,” the future First Lady said. “And I came to terms with that because it comes with the territory, you can’t have one without the other. Somewhere in the back of my mind I knew that this sort of thing was likely to happen and I’ve been kind of trying to prepare for it, but to be quite honest – I don’t think anything can really prepare you for someone attacking your child and calling them sick. That’s crossing the line and has to have consequences, legal or otherwise.”

She continued, “Therefore, as of today, I am asking people to stop encouraging the video in question because they too will face a lawsuit because of it. I don’t want to hurt anyone or cause them discomfort, but at the end of the day, I have to react just like every mother should when her child’s safety and wellbeing is brought into question. And in case you’re thinking, ‘You’ll never be able to find all of us because the Internet is a huge place,’ let me just say that my husband is a self-made billionaire who just became the president of this country. How hard do you think it’ll be for him to compile a list for me of everybody that shared the video when I do my thing to him?”

“Oh, and I almost forgot,” Melania added. “In addition to the people who support the false video regarding my son, I am also going to sue anybody who has the audacity to claim that I used to be a porn star. I’ve seen this rumor floating around the Internet some time ago, and I don’t like it one bit. This is an invasion of my privacy and I plan to take full legal action to prevent that from happening again. And besides – even if I were, that would be my problem, not everyone else’s,” she concluded.