Rudi Giuliani: “For Obama, America Is The Same As Michelle – No Love, But No Other Option”
“New York, NY – Rudi Giuliani took no prisoners Wednesday night during a private group dinner in New York City featuring Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker by openly questioning whether President Barack Obama “loves America.”

“The former New York mayor, speaking in front of the 2016 Republican presidential contender and about 60 right-leaning business executives and conservative media types, directly challenged Obama’s patriotism, discussing what he called weak foreign policy decisions and questionable public remarks when confronting terrorists.

““I do not believe, and I know this is a horrible thing to say, but I do not believe that the president loves America,” Giuliani said during the dinner at the 21 Club, a former Prohibition-era speakeasy in midtown Manhattan. “He doesn’t love you. And he doesn’t love me. He wasn’t brought up the way you were brought up and I was brought up through love of this country.”

“With Walker sitting just a few seats away, Giuliani continued by saying that “with all our flaws we’re the most exceptional country in the world. I’m looking for a presidential candidate who can express that, do that and carry it out. And if it’s you Scott, I’ll endorse you,” he added. “And if it’s somebody else, I’ll support somebody else.”

“In an interview after the dinner – Walker insisted all of the governor’s comments were off the record – Giuliani said he would “eventually” back a Republican presidential candidate. He also elaborated on his criticism of Obama by arguing the president “sees our weaknesses as footnotes to the great things we’ve done.”

““What country has left so many young men and women dead abroad to save other countries without taking land? This is not the colonial empire that somehow he has in his hand. I’ve never felt that from him. I felt that from [George] W. [Bush]. I felt that from [Bill] Clinton. I felt that from every American president including ones I disagreed with, including [Jimmy] Carter. I don’t feel that from President Obama.”

Asked about his comments in New York, Giuliani told Newslo: “I stand by what I said. I don’t trust that man, I don’t like that man and honestly, I think he’s the worst thing that happened to this country since Pearl Harbor. President Obama doesn’t love America any more than he loves his wife – both of those situations are a no-way-out zone for him. And another thing – I can think of 6,999,999,999 people on this planet who could do a better job as President. I’m just glad to see him go.”