Former Drug Exec Martin Shkreli Buys Controlling Stake in Twitter
NEW YORK, Ny. – Former U.S. drug executive Martin Shkreli, who was suspended from Twitter on Sunday for harassing a female journalist, has purchased a controlling stake in the social media service for an estimated $7.1 billion with the intent of reinstating his account.

“As the company’s majority shareholder, Martin will have the final say on all matters pertaining to Twitter and its many subsidiaries,” explained Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s co-founder and Chief Executive Officer. Dorsey said the thirty-four year-old Shkreli, who served as CEO for Turing Pharmaceuticals in 2015, aims to reinvent the social media platform in his own image.

During an appearance on CNN Monday morning, Shkreli announced that his first order of business will be to replace Twitter’s signature bird logo with a likeness of himself. “When people think Twitter, they’re going to think Martin Shkreli,” Mr. Shkreli told New Day co-host Alisyn Camerota. “History will know me as the Martin Luther King, Jr. of social media,” he ardently declared, later adding that he has already updated his Wikipedia page to reflect that statement.

Hours after Twitter officials moved to suspend Mr. Shkreli’s account over his alleged cyber-harassment of Teen Vogue editor Lauren Duca, thousands of supporters stormed the company’s office in New York City – ransacking the building and making off with thousands of dollars worth of office supplies – in an effort to protest the decision. “Martin Shkreli is the lone voice of reason in these trying times,” said one supporter who asked to remain anonymous because she had just set fire to a corporate vehicle.

Sources close to Mr. Shkreli say he has organized a surprise party for himself at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas next weekend. The former hedge fund manager is expected to unveil Twitter’s new logo during the multi-million dollar bash while also celebrating the reinstatement of his social media account. The event is rumored to be open to the public, however attendees will be asked to pay a $2,500 cover charge at the door.