Pastor Anderson Warns: “A Black Lady Liberty Is Blasphemy And Will Cause God To Order Us To Re-Introduce Slavery”
The U.S. Mint is unveiling a commemorative $100 gold coin that depicts Liberty as a black woman – and conservatives are predictably freaking out. The 2017 American Liberty 225th Anniversary Gold Coin, which will be released April 6, shows the year of the mint’s founding, 1792, and the woman’s head in profile, reported the Associated Press. The mint said the coins were intended to reflect “the cultural and ethnic diversity of the United States,” and others in a series of 24-karat gold coins will feature designs representing Asian-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Indian-Americans.

As expected, social networks have exploded with comments bashing the mint’s decision, along with countless public figures who have joined the criticism. Most notably, Christian Pastor Steven Anderson, a hardcore fundamentalist, told The Christian Post that introducing Lady Liberty as an African American woman would be “blasphemous,” and that such a move will undoubtedly “cause God to order us to re-introduce slavery” into the American society.

“In all of His infinite wisdom and capacity for forgiveness,” Anderson said, “God has granted us many good things on this Earth. And it would be rude of us to assume that his patience knows no limits. Because, let’s be honest here – we’ve pretty much tested his patience countless times in our history, with a noticeable increase these last couple of years. I mean, first we abolished slavery, then we had the whole Martin Luther King Jr. debacle in the 1960’s, and the most recent example of the new low our society has spiraled down to is same-sex marriage and this talk about abortion rights. As far as divine loans go, I think we’re way past due on our payments as a nation.”

He continued, “And when you’re going through your daily newspaper while enjoying your morning coffee and you come across this latest attempt to diminish the importance of white Americans, you realize that you’ve reached a breaking point. The American society is today at a stage where it’s like a balloon that’s so full of air all it takes is the tiniest needle in the world and it’ll explode. And a black Lady Liberty is exactly the kind of needle that’s more than sharp enough to wreak havoc across this country. And the worst part about it is God has given us all the freedom we want to make our own decisions. And we’ve been making a lot of wrong ones, especially recently.”

“By the way, that happens to be one of the best things about being American – you have the kind freedom and liberty that no other nation in the world can boast with. But, on the other hand, we’re committing blasphemy here; one that’s equally bad as abolishing slavery, because the Bible clearly condones it,” the conservative pastor said. “And at some point pretty soon, God is going to decide he’s had enough bench-warming duty and he’s going to come into play. And when he does, he’ll make us re-introduce slavery, because the Bible is His word and His will. And to go against the will of God is the same as spitting Him in the face.”

“Lady Liberty is white; she always has been and always will be. Those who seek to change that will suffer the wrath of God and will burn in hell. Besides, we’re headed in the wrong direction – first we freed black people; then we gave them equality; next, they had their own President of the country; now we’re thinking about putting them on our money. What’s next? Cancelling more staples of traditional America like the KKK just because black folks aren’t fans? Come on, get real. I think they have way more than what they bargained for as it is. God is forgiving, no doubt about that; our Forefathers, on the other hand? I’m pretty sure they’re rolling around in their graves right about now,” Anderson concluded.