World’s Biggest Starbucks Opening In Phoenix AZ: Roller Coaster, Underground Water Slide & Robot Baristas
PHOENIX, A.Z. (AP) — The world’s biggest Starbucks will be opening in downtown Phoenix, Arizona this November. The new Starbucks will also be the largest coffee shop in the world, seating up to 2,155 patrons, vastly surpassing the Al Masaa Café in Saudi Arabia which can seat up to 1,050 customers at one time.







“This new Starbucks will be the best place to be on the planet!” Paul Horner, a spokesman for Starbucks told ABC News. “It’s gonna have it all! Rides, games, robot baristas and every type of coffee imaginable. This will not be your average coffee shop to get a cup of joe, this will be a life changing experience. If you’re not here, you’re not anywhere.”

The three story, 51,000 square foot building, appropriately dubbed “Magnum” (Magnum means ‘big’ in Latin), will be host to numerous games, rides and more coffee than humanly imaginable.

On the Starbucks information page for Magnum, the company says the establishment will include the following:

Robot baristas

Shooting gallery

Roller coaster

Above and below-ground water slide

560 different flavors of coffee

Restaurant

Starbucks coffee & dining section for children

Pendulum ride

Ping pong

Coffee bean bounce house

Train ride

Carousel

TV entertainment & media center room

Bumper boats

Roller rink

Log flume

Bumper cars

Slot machines

Blackjack tables

Regular arcade & penny arcade

Coffee bean roulette

Dolphin tank & exhibit

Lazy river

Ball pit

Chairlift

Dance hall/disco & techno room

VIP & valet parking

Indoor skatepark

Batting cages

Indoor basketball court

Men’s & women’s fitness center

Caffeine sauna

Stand-up comedy room

Ferris wheel

Chill zone

Gravitron

Movie theater

Arts & crafts room

Tapioca pudding fountain

Gyro tower

Break dance room

Concert hall

Haunted house

Disco/dance room

Pirate ship ride

Petting zoo

Free Wifi

“I’m so happy that more commercialized coffee franchises like Starbucks are moving into the area. Spots like Jobot, Lola and Songbird are just frequented by too many free-thinkers,” says 39-year-old local Phoenix resident Phil Freedom. “I’m also relieved that the Children’s Hospital that was planned for this location is now permanently put on hold; what an eyesore that would have been.”







“Biggest Starbucks ever headed to Phoenix,” the company said in a tweet today. Also released today in a video on the company website from Starbuck’s president Tom Downey claiming, “Magnum Starbucks will be the Willy Wonka of coffee.”

Sarah Bradley, a spokeswoman for Sock It Forward, a local charity that provides the Valley’s homeless and those less fortunate with brand new socks, spoke with CNN about the new Starbucks.

“We need more homeless shelters and places to help those in need, not more corporate establishments. So much artwork and beauty is being lost to these monstrosities it’s ridiculous. We need to support local businesses and keep these corporate giants out.” Bradley continued, “Also, thank you to everyone that has supported our cause in giving new socks to the homeless, it means so much. Please, give what you can .”

A Grand Opening is planned for Magnum with the folks from Guinness World Records in attendance should any coffee related records be broken. EMT’s and defibrillators will be on hand in case any caffeine related emergencies occur. Prizes include a trip to the Bahamas and a brand new 2016 Honda Civic. Planned events for possible world records include:

Fastest drinking of coffee

Longest time balancing a cup of coffee on top of various objects

Most coffee snorted

Most coffee beans eaten

Staying up contest without seeing shadow people

Most coffee enemas

The new Starbucks will be located at the corner of 7th Avenue and Roosevelt in the trendy downtown art’s district of Phoenix. Magnum‘s Grand Opening is scheduled for November 5th, celebrating Paul Horner’s 38th birthday. Celebrities making an appearance at the Grand Opening are Bill Murray, Quentin Tarantino, Katy Perry and Jennifer Lawrence. A Starbucks pre-Grand Opening party is planned for this Thursday (9/15/16) at 9PM at The Lost Leaf for The Mystery Show in downtown Phoenix. Bill Murray will be making an appearance.