Morgan Ortagus: "Michelle Obama Should Respect The Fact That A Real Lady Is Coming To The White House For A Change”
Morgan Ortagus, a frequent Fox Business pundit and national co-chair of Maverick PAC, asserted that First Lady Michelle Obama should “just smile and be helpful to Melania Trump” instead of voicing her concerns about the president-elect. While speaking to Oprah Winfrey last week, the first lady reflected on the emotions of some Americans who she said were “feeling what not having hope feels like” after Donald Trump’s 2016 victory. “You could really hear the disdain in her voice,” Ortagus said. “People need to understand the American people spoke, the Electoral College voted and it’s time to move on.”

“To be perfectly honest here,” the pundit said, “At a certain level, I can kind of understand why she’s feeling the way she is. But, at the same time, that’s the way of the world – she knew this was going to happen, she was completely aware that she couldn’t stay in the White House forever and she always had a pretty good idea that a Republican candidate could win the election. So, to say this comes as a surprise to her would be a lie, it’s as simple as that. She is a very intelligent woman and there’s no point in pretending otherwise.”

He continued, “It’s for that reason precisely that I’m somewhat confused by the way she reacts to all of this. I mean, she’s way past the point of being rude and she’s now just flat out insulting, without a single ounce of subtlety. If you ask me, Michelle Obama needs to get off her high horse and respect the fact that a non-gorilla-looking, real lady is finally coming to the White House again. And that goes especially for the pedestal-view the former First Lady has a way of using when talking about and even addressing Melania Trump. We get that there’s absolutely no love between the two of them, but that’s no reason to act like an actual gorilla, come on.”

Ortagus also argued that President Barack Obama’s wife “ought to take a page” from Laura Bush’s handbook, “who exercised extreme restraint and control when handing things off to her,” as well as, “avoided complaining about how Americans had lost hope because her husband George Bush was succeeded by Barack Obama.” “She was a real lady about it all and acted accordingly,” the pundit said. “And that’s precisely the kind of dignity and poise that Michelle Obama threw out the window when she decided that the fact that she was First Lady actually meant something to Americans. Somewhere along the line she must have lost track of the fact that First Ladies to Americans are nothing more than trophy wives – all that matters is if they’re hot enough. And she just wasn’t.”

“Donald Trump’s wife, on the other hand, is not only the spitting image of class and elegance – she’s so hot she could easily be arrested for single-handedly being responsible for global warming. And I don’t really care if you’re into interracial or not, but when it comes down to it, I’d rather see a dirty movie starring Melania Trump than Michelle Obama. Granted, a threesome would be awesome, but that’s another story. Bottom line – Michelle Obama needs to respect the fact that a woman who’s not only way hotter, but is also a bigger lady than her is coming to the White House. Finally, I might add, after 8 years of terror. Because, her life won’t be over when she steps out of there, she’ll have to live with herself afterwards. And that’s a very difficult thing to do when you’re so bitter and full of despair and hopelessness,” he concluded.