Chrissy Teigen and John Legend at the Women's March on DC
Saturday's protest on the nation's capitol drew out major star power following President Donald Trump's inauguration on January 20.

Doing their part for the cause - from two different cities - were husband-and-wife team Chrissy Teigen and John Legend.

The Sports Illustrated cover girl represented the Legend family on the front lines in Washington, D.C. on Saturday morning, while the All of You singer showed up to the march on Main Street in Utah.

Separated: Doing their part for the cause - from two different cities - were husband-and-wife team Chrissy Teigen and John Legend

The outspoken Teigen was spotted in a cozy, all-black outfit with a warm scarf wrapped around her neck, her hair styled into an updo with plaits.

The mother-of-one flashed her impressive engagement ring as she marched beside smiling civilians.

The protest has garnered international attention and marches took place globally in several cities around the world.

According to CNN, it was organized as a grassroots movement and 'aims to send a b old message' to the new administration on its first day in office, 'and to the world that women's rights are human rights.'

Leading the event was Women's March on Washington chairwoman America Ferrera.

Empowered: The mother-of-one flashed her impressive engagement ring as she marched beside smiling civilians

Nervous? Teigen was spotted in a cozy, all-black outfit with a warm scarf wrapped around her neck, her hair styled into an updo with plaits

She and Chrissy were joined by a star-studded line up that included Uzo Aduba, Cher, Scarlett Johansson, Amy Schumer, Margo Jefferson, Katy Perry, Olivia Wilde, and more.

The 31-year-old bikini model had spent most of Friday's inauguration live-Tweeting, her comments ranging from crude ('What a beautiful prayer. makes me wanna grab my p***') and sarcastic ('Can u guys feel it? america is great again all of a sudden it's so weird. he was right!') to nostalgic ('Today turned out to be a beautiful day for twitter comedy. You guys are bonkers. I love you.').

Meanwhile, her husband John was up early on Saturday at the march in Utah as he had to be in town for the Sundance Film Festival.

Doing his part: John was up early on Saturday at the march in Utah as he had to be in town for the Sundance Film Festival

The musical genius was warmly dressed in a green sweater, a gray beanie, a padded black snow jacket and black pants.

His most noticeable accessory was a purple 'I'm with Meryl' sticker, clearly referring to actress Meryl Streep after her pathos-filled speech at the 2017 Golden Globe Awards.

Alongside the singer were actress Charlize Theron who was brought to tears and talk-show host Chelsea Handler who wore the outfit of the day, a pink 'p**** hat.'

Between marching, John took to Twitter to share more of his distaste with the 45th U.S. President.

Supporters: Chrissy and John were huge Hillary Clinton supporters. They are pictured here with Sophia Bush in June 2016

Retweeting a post by @TheHill that claimed the President did not write his own inauguration speech, Legend wrote: 'He lies about the most obvious s**t. We know he doesn't read or write anything beyond 140 characters.'

He also took the time to thank the former president, tweeting: '#ThankYouObamas. I'm proud to know you. Proud to have supported you. Thank you for your wisdom, grace and service to your country.'

The couple - who are parents to 9-month-old daughter Luna - were outspoken Barack Obama supporters during his two terms and Hillary Clinton supporters during her campaign for presidency.