Mariah Carey eats pot cake on Mariah's World
Mariah Carey was shown eating a pot cake in an Amsterdam cafe on Sunday's episode of her reality show while also flirting with backing dancer Bryan Tanaka.

The new episode of Mariah's World showed Mariah, 46, and her crew all hitting a coffee shop called The Bulldog and munching on the various marijuana treats legally sold there.

The mom-of-two initially played coy, pretending with manager Stella Bulochnikov that they would order 'the beet salad' — with Stella blurting out that she was actually pointing to a pot treat called Candy Kush.

Pot cake: Mariah Carey was shown eating a pot cake in an Amsterdam cafe on Sunday's episode of Mariah's World

Mariah earlier sounded familiar with the coffee shop, saying Amsterdam has 'really fun places, especially this cafe.'

'I just want to try this but I don't know about it,' she said of the drug-laced treats, insisting she was 'a little concerned' about trying any.

'I'm so hungry, that's the problem,' she finally smiled, allowing the cameras to catch her biting into a chocolate muffin-shaped treat and admitting: 'It tastes good.'

In an on-camera confessional she bragged that she was 'just like, whatever, I'll do whatever I want' - before joking: 'Edit that out.'

Heating up: The pop superstar and her flirtations with backup dancer Bryan Tanaka heated up

The menu: The Bulldog coffee shop in Amsterdam offered a selection of edible marijuana

The crew was all shown celebrating with Tanaka, 33, holding up a bag of weed and smiling: 'This is legal here.'

Back-up dancer Shaun, who insisted he had never been high before, was sure he felt no effects — eating more until everyone started laughing at how high he was.

Mariah even told him: 'Everyone else can see that you are f***ed up!'

Wait for it: Back-up dancer Shaun was not feeling the effects of a pot cake immediately

It's working: Shaun had everyone laughing as the pot cake kicked in and he declared he could 'smell the cold'

Ready to roll: Bryan grinned while holding up a bag of marijuana

Good times: Mariah held up her pot cake while chatting with Tanaka at The Bulldog coffee shop

She later pranked Shaun, climbing into his bed alongside another dancer, Mike, who had removed his pants, telling a confused Shaun when he woke that Mike was 'so loving and generous.'

'You guys, I'm so happy for you,' she told them as she walked out, before finally admitting it was all a prank.

Even though she was still engaged to billionaire businessman James Packer at the time, the next time the crew was shown celebrating, in South Africa, Mariah seemed to take her chemistry with Tanaka to a new level.

Good one: Mariah pranked Shaun the next morning by climbing in his bed

Despite insisting they were just 'really good friends,' they were shown flirting outrageously, with Mariah repeatedly leaning into him as they stood, and Tanaka's hands caressing the singer's arms and back.

She even seemed to give him an overt come on, telling him: 'I'm about to be a dumbass with somebody. So you got the job.'

'Best dumbass,' he smiled back at her.

Flirt on: Tanaka smiled as Mariah said she was about to be a 'dumbass with somebody' and chose him

As the footage was shown, Mariah was heard in an on-camera confessional saying that Brian joining the tour had 'brought up a whole bunch of different feelings' from when they worked together before, but insisting: 'We're just really good friends.'

'We share, like, a million memories together and we have a very cool and special relationship,' she added, insisting that 'doesn't even describe it.'

'You just don't have that connection with everybody,' she added of the dancer who was almost always by her side during the episode.

Pop diva: Mariah talked about her connection with Tanaka

Hands on: Tanaka gave his boss a little massage

On the lap: Mariah made herself comfortable on Tanaka's lap

While claiming it was just friendship, the display of affection clearly stunned her manager Stella, who asked later: 'Is this really happening?'

'At the end of the day, you have to love who you work with. So, you know, sometimes it's easy for people to sort of walk into your life.'

'But holy ****, I don't even — I just, I just… I can't keep up,' Stella said.

Candid conversation: Tour manager Stella Bulochnikov listened as Mariah explained her feelings for Tanaka

Tanaka had been devastated as he was diagnosed with having a fractured patella, calling it 'basically a crack in my kneecap' as he feared his 'career could be over.'

He was close to quitting the tour more because he was so confused about his feelings for the star after seeing her with then-fiancé James when he visited the tour.

'With Mariah I'm pretty confused about things,' he admitted.

Patella broken: Tanaka was worried about his career after suffering a broken patella

'When I saw Mariah and James together, I'm not gonna lie — I felt a little crazy. Especially because we're in the same room together, I'm at the other end of the table, she's at the other end of the table with him, and I feel like there's a complete disconnect when just before I felt like a crazy connection.

'So now I'm really confused, I don't know what's real. It just kinda puts things in perspective for me. It's throwing me off.

'This is a low point of me. Maybe it is just best that I go home,' he said dejectedly.

Low point: The backing dancer was considering leaving the tour

Hearing his plans from Stella, Mariah arranged to surprise Tanaka by bringing him out onstage - then performed a sexy lap dance while he sat blindfolded on a chair while she sang Touch My Body, a song from her 2008 album E=MC².

He later called it a 'special moment in time,' and admitted with a giant smile: 'Just to get that little extra love from Mariah - I'm not gonna lie, it made me feel a lot better.

'At the end of the day, I'm extremely happy that Mariah's in my life.

Surprise time: Mariah surprised Tanaka by bringing him on stage

Touching it: Tanaka wrapped his arms around Mariah as she gave him a lap dance while performing Touch My Body

'I'd rather have that than nothing at all. I don't wanna go home — I wanna stay here,' he added.

He was not the only one Mariah surprised onstage, as she brought out her twins Monroe and Moroccan in Cape Town, giving them giant bunches of balloons as she sang Always Be My Baby to celebrate their fifth birthdays.

'I really want to do something they'll never forget,' she said.

Birthday celebration: The singer brought her twins Monroe and Moroccan on stage to celebrate their fifth birthdays

Backup singer Mary Ann Tatum finally got to confront Mariah's creative director Anthony Burrell for refusing to allow her six-year-old son to travel with them — and shaming him with her powerful words.

'It hurt me, because I felt like out of everybody here you would understand what was trying to do because we both come from similar backgrounds,' she told him

'You represent to me the possibility of my kid not going to jail or ending up dead. And I took it beyond personal because I really do respect you,' Mary Ann said.

Tension simmering: Mary Ann Tatum finally confronted creative director Anthony Burrell who refused to allow her young son to travel on the same bus as the dancers

Apology offered: Anthony begged for forgiveness after Mary Ann said she 'took it beyond personal' and considered him a role model

Pointing out that while the rest of the crew relaxes she has to care for her child, she added: 'I'm busting my behind because I want my kid to have a chance. I want him to see there's a world outside of where I grew up.'

'I just ask and beg and plead for your forgiveness,' Anthony finally told her, hugging her to make up.

When he told Mariah about apologizing, she also hugged him, telling him: 'I'm so proud of you. It makes me so happy that you guys made up, seriously.'

Big hug: Mary Ann and Anthony hugged it out after he apologized