Madonna at Women’s March: ‘I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House’
Madonna made a surprise Saturday appearance at the Women’s March on Washington, the cornerstone of the massive worldwide protests following President Trump’s inauguration.

In her speech at the pre-march rally, the pop megastar declared that she was angry and that “good did not win this election.”

“Are you still awake out there?” she asked the Washington, D.C., crowd. “Are you sure about that? Can you hear me? Are you ready to shake up the world? Welcome to the revolution of love, to the rebellion, to our refusal as women to accept this new age of tyranny. Where not just women are in danger, but all marginalized people. Where being uniquely different right now might truly be considered a crime. It took this horrific moment of darkness to wake us the f*** up.”

Madonna, who was a vocal opponent of Trump throughout his campaign, declared that the demonstration marked the beginning of the “revolution.”

True to form, her remarks at the rally was peppered with profanity.

“Let’s march together through this darkness and with each step know that we are not afraid, that we are not alone, that we will not back down, that there is power in our unity and that no opposing force stands a chance in the face of true solidarity. And to our detractors that insist that this march will never add up to anything, f*** you. F*** you. It is the beginning of much-needed change, change that will require sacrifice.”

Madonna continued with a provocative remark about the White House: “Yes, I’m angry. Yes, I am outraged. Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House. But I know this won’t change anything. We cannot fall into despair.”

She then performed a set of songs, including “Express Yourself” and “Human Nature,” which she dedicated to “DT” — Donald Trump. But she suggested that the “D” could stand for “d***.”

The performance was not the singer’s first pop-up appearance to speak out against Trump. On Nov. 7, the day before the presidential election, Madonna held an impromptu concert in Manhattan’s Washington Square Park urging voters to support Hillary Clinton.

Related:





_____

