Wasp develops head of an ANT on its rear end
Researchers have identified a new species of wasp - and its rear end looks like an ant's head.

The researchers based at University of Turku in Finland named the wasp Clistopyga caramba, after the Spanish phrase 'Ay caramba!' used to express astonishment - describing the feeling the researchers felt when they saw the wasp for the first time.

They found the wasp at The Natural History Museum of San Marcos, Lima, Peru, where it was stored after originally being collected from an area in Peru where the Andes and the Amazon rain forest meet.

Scroll down for video

The wasps posterior looks like an ants head - which could have evolved to scare away a type of spider who's eggs are preyed upon by ants

WHAT ARE PARASITOID WASPS? Parasitoid wasps lay their eggs on the bodies or eggs of other animals, which their larvae then feed on. Sometimes, the hosts are still alive when their insides are eaten by the larvae. When the larvae are ready to pupate, they usually kill their host. To do this, an adult parasitoid has to find the right host. Then, it lays its eggs inside it. To do this, most parasitoid wasps have a long organ they use stab their hosts. Source: BBC Earth

The wasps posterior and ovipositor - a tube-like organ through which female insects or fish deposits their eggs - look like the head of an ant.

The researchers, who published their research in the journal Zootaxa, wrote that the new species 'is morphologically among the most bizarre parasitoid wasps ever collected and described.'

'When we saw it for the first time, we first thought that it might represent a developmental deformation.'

Because the female specimen is dead and is the only one ever discovered, the researchers don't know anything about its behavior.

But the researchers have some hypotheses about why the caramba wasp has an ant-like behind.

The modified posterior could allow the female to bend its upcurved ovipositor more strongly upwards - enabling it to attack prey such as spiders and/or their egg sacs hiding inside nests or tight spaces.

It could also be that the modified posterior is used for a tactic known as Batesian mimicry - when a species evolves to imitate the warning signals of a harmful species.

Some spiders are afraid of ants that prey on them, so this wasp may have evolved a posterior that looks like an ants head to scare these spiders away.

A species of jumping spider called Myrmarachne melanotarsa also uses this tactic.

It looks like an ant and scares certain types of spiders away, who abandon their eggs.

The posterior and ovipositor of the female Clistopyga caramba. The ovipositor is a tube-like organ through which female insects or fish deposits its eggs

Caramba wasps are parasitoid wasps, which means they lay their eggs on the bodies or eggs of other animals, which their larvae then feed on.

Sometimes, the hosts are still alive when their insides are eaten by the larvae.

When the larvae are ready to pupate, they usually kill their host.

The posterior of the caramba wasp resembles the head of an ant. Some types of spiders are afraid of ants that prey on them, so the caramba wasp may have evolved a posterior that looks like an ants head to scare spiders away

After an adult parasitoid finds the right host to lay its eggs in, the usually use a long organ to stab their hosts.

For the female caramba wasp, abandoned spider eggs could be used as a host for laying their own eggs.

The researchers even suggest that the ant-looking behind might encourage these spiders to come closer to attack what it thinks is a dangerous ant, giving the wasp a chance to kill it.

Alligator snapping turtle's also use mimicry tactics. The turtle has a tongue that looks like a worm, which it wriggles to bait prey close to its mouth

Many other species in the animal and plant kingdoms also use mimicry to their advantage.

For example, the alligator snapping turtle has a tongue that looks like a worm which it wriggles to bait prey close to its mouth.

Certain male ruff birds have been found to mimic females in order to get close to their love interest while avoiding the competition.