Josh Norman Says Odell Beckham Jr Grabbed His Butt During Game
New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. and Carolina Panthers cornerback Josh Norman clashed throughout the entirety of their showdown on Sunday. Beckham lost his cool several times during the Giants 38-35 loss to the Panthers, including a play in which he ran toward Norman and laid a vicious helmet-to-helmet hit on him.

After hearing that Beckham will probably be suspended the Panthers cornerback expressed happiness. Norman said that Beckham should have been ejected for his helmet-to-helmet hit but believes the NFL will get it right if it does indeed suspend the receiver.

“I mean I don’t see how they didn’t see that from up top. Ring down and be like, ‘Get this guy out of here.’ They ring down for everything else. I mean concussion protocol, I had to get checked out myself. I’m going to go in there and get checked out again. I mean that was crazy. But at the end of the day, they got it right, they got the call right, they saw what’s up,” he stated.

“All the concussion stuff that’s going around, they’re trying to prevent head to head and if that wasn’t the blatant head to head, I don’t know what is,” Norman said.

Norman also accused Beckham of grabbing his behind. “I thought he was giving me the old sports butt tap, but he grabbed and held on and told me it was soft,” stated Norman.

Beckham fired back at Norman, claiming he kept throwing homophobic slurs his direction. “He called me a f**, gay, a sissy and other homophobic terms. When he asked me if I sit between another man’s legs to get my hair permed I was finished with him. There is no place for that kind of talk in our game. I have many gay friends and I was defending their honor,” stated Beckham.

“And anyway he can pretend my hair isn’t fabulous when he knows it is bitch,” Beckham stated while flipping his hair.

Norman admitted to wanting to rattle Beckham’s cage a bit but says the Giants receiver took it too far.

“When you take that too far, when you go at somebody maliciously like that, go head-hunting … If you want that kind of game, that’s outside of the game. That’s not even the rulebook anymore. That’s on some other type of stuff. We can go there, I don’t think you want that to happen, but at the same time I know where I’m at.

“So I’m going to be bigger about the situation and continue to keep showing this stuff, showing this stuff, telling the refs, continue to do that. I don’t know how much more I can do.”

There has been wide speculation about Odell Beckham Jr’s sexuality as of late, and he says Norman used those rumors to get under his skin.