President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump's First Dance Video
Transcript for President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump's First Dance

Yeah and I. But isn't. Call me talents thank you. Well we did it. I. We began this journey and they said we we at me. We did have a chance but we knew we were gonna win. Had we won. And today we had a great day. Deep ball that weren't so nice to me. We're saying that we did a really good job today. They hated to do know it but they. And I respect. I respect that. But I have to say the crowd was unbelievable to you know I looked at the rent the raid which does never again. Q don't we finished his speech. When inside. It board. Then we came outside the helicopters. Scene was an incredible scene. An incredible seeing so beautiful. Like from a movie set so beautiful and then. And then. Amazingly. It rained and then we went out it's like god was looking down on us I will tell you. I want to thank all of our supporters. My dove awards support a Maloney you know what she puts up with. Now we really we really did something that says special. And this evening is so special and this hall today and yesterday. So incredible so many people. Made such a difference. Vice president. Mike Pence. No more allow. And all of the tribute is GO good to see things happening over the next. Few weeks. Are you gonna be so happy. Because you know they're very elegant people tonight. But they're also very political people right. We want to see great things happen for our country. We want to make America great again as we well. So now it say the tremendous daughter. To have the first dance with my lobbied. We're going to be judged by. I vice president we're gonna be joined by some very wonderful wonderful children. As we go along they happen to be my children are much. Had I just want to again I want to thank everybody. We always felt we were gonna do it it's a movement like they've never seen anywhere at anytime anywhere in the world. This was a movement. And now. Don't work begins. Now the work begins his no games right no games. Wry wit not playing games the work begins. I want to thank everybody we love you. We're going to be working for you. We're going to be producing. Results thank you everybody have a great guy. And now the president and first lady of the United States will take their first stance. Ladies and gentlemen the first couple Donald and Maloney a trump. Last day. Sigh and oh. I.

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.