King Abdullah Consults Clint Eastwood: “His Wild West Experience Is Priceless For The Middle East”
“On Tuesday, members of the House Armed Services Committee met with the King of Jordan, Abdullah, not long after news broke that ISIS had burned to death a Jordanian pilot captured in the fight against the terrorist group. In a private session with lawmakers, the king showed an extraordinary measure of anger – anger which he expressed by citing American movie icon Clint Eastwood.

“Republican Rep. Duncan Hunter Jr., a Marine Corps veteran of two tours in Iraq and one in Afghanistan, who was in the meeting with the king, said: “he said there is going to be retribution like ISIS hasn’t seen. He mentioned ‘Unforgiven’ and he mentioned Clint Eastwood, and he actually quoted a part of the movie.”

“Hunter would not say which part of “Unforgiven” the king quoted, but noted it was where Eastwood’s character describes how he is going to deliver his retribution. There is a scene in the picture in which Eastwood’s character, William Munny, says, “any man I see out there, I’m gonna kill him. Any son of a bitch takes a shot at me, I’m not only going to kill him, I’m going to kill his wife and all his friends and burn his damn house down.”

“Hunter said of King Abdullah: “he’s angry. They’re starting more sorties tomorrow than they’ve ever had. They’re starting tomorrow. And he said, ‘the only problem we’re going to have is running out of fuel and bullets.’”

““He’s ready to get it on,” Hunter added. “He really is. It reminded me of how we were after 9/11. We were ready to give it to them.”

Speaking exclusively for Newslo, King Abdullah said: “yes, of course I’m mad! Wouldn’t you be?! That’s why I decided to consult one of the toughest men I know and a guy I personally look up to. Clint’s experience in the Wild West is extensive and I’ve decided to offer him an exclusive contract to act as my consultant for the time being. Until this crisis is over, I think it’s best to have Clint by my side 24/7. No ISIS member would dare mess with him. Not if they feel lucky, the punks.”