Kim Kardashian On Divorce: ‘I Married For Love’
‘It just didn’t turn out to be the fairy tale I had so badly hoped for,’ she blogs about marriage to Kris Humphries.

By James Dinh









Kim Kardashian



Photo: Toby Canham/ Getty Images

It seems like everyone is sharing their thoughts and theories about Kim Kardashian’s short-lived marriage to basketball player Kris Humphries, and on Tuesday night (November 1), so did the reality starlet herself.

Taking to her blog, the Kardashian sister posted a lengthy letter, in which she thanked her supporters, refuted tabloid reports and. most importantly, defended her relationship.

“This is probably the hardest thing I’ve ever had to write,” the letter began. “I see all of the support and I am so thankful for my fans, friends and family who are helping me through this difficult time.”

Kardashian explained that she’s doing her best to ignore the constant media speculation surrounding the shocking announcement, stressing her heartfelt reasons for marriage.

“I am trying not to read all the different media reports but it’s hard not to see all the negative ones. First and foremost, I married for love. I can’t believe I even have to defend this,” she wrote. “I would not have spent so much time on something just for a TV show! I share so much of my life on a reality show, that contemplating whether to even film my wedding was a tough decision to make, and maybe it turned out to not be the smartest decision. But it’s who I am! We filmed Kourtney giving birth, Khloé getting married, break ups, make ups, our best moments and our worst moments. These were all real moments. That’s what makes us who we are. We share, we give, we love and we are open!”

After admitting her indecisiveness about letting E! cameras inside her lavish wedding ceremony in August, Kim elaborated on why she was so intent on following her heart, saying, “Everyone that knows me knows that I’m a hopeless romantic! I love with all of my heart and soul. I want a family and babies and a real life so badly that maybe I rushed in to something too soon. I believed in love and the dream of what I wanted so badly. I felt like I was on a fast roller coaster and couldn’t get off when now I know I probably should have. I got caught up with the hoopla and the filming of the TV show that when I probably should have ended my relationship, I didn’t know how to and didn’t want to disappoint a lot of people.”

Towards the end of her blog, the TV personality acknowledged her courage in dealing with the split and confessed she “never had the intention of hurting anybody.”

“I accept full responsibility for my actions and decisions, and for taking everyone on this journey with me. It just didn’t turn out to be the fairy tale I had so badly hoped for,” she shared.

The brunet beauty also slammed reports that she has earned millions of dollars from the 72-day marriage — even revealing plans to donate her wedding-gift money to charity.

“These reports are simply not true and it makes me so sad to have to even clarify this,” she continued. “I’m so grateful to everyone who took the time to come to my wedding and I’ll be donating the money for all the gifts to the Dream Foundation.”

Kardashian concluded her post on a touching note when she brought up advice she received from her late father, Robert Kardashian Sr.: “I’m sorry if I have hurt anyone, but my dad always told me to follow my heart and I believe now that I really am.”

What do you think about Kim’s blog? Let us know in the comments.

Related Photos