Gender Change Procedure Now Available For Pets
Have you ever adopted a pet, and almost immediately began to regret the decision? Maybe you should have gotten a boy because heat periods aren’t as severe. Should you have gotten a girl, since females are smaller and cuter? Stop worrying, because gender change procedures are now available for all canine and feline pets.

The technology has existed for humans to change their gender for quite some time now. Why shouldn’t pets have the same rights, or the same choices? It’s simple, really. Having the option to medically modify the gender of a pet will not only satisfy their gender identity disorders, but it will assure that no more puppies or kittens are left behind in mills or shelters because they were born the wrong sex.

The procedure, much like with humans, requires a long-term commitment. The process includes months of sex assignment therapy, hormone supplements and replacements, as well as surgical replacement of sexual organs, and post-surgical recovery time. The pets’ family must be willing to dedicate themselves and most of their time to the pet, as support and reassurance will ensure a quicker progress for the animal.

Dr. Margaret MacKenzie, a leading professor at the Wyoming Institute of Technology, has personally committed herself to the research involved in sex changes for animals. She hopes someday to expand the medical knowledge and technology to help other species of animal solve their gender identity issues as well.

Dr. MacKenzie believes it is just as important to pets as it is to humans, to feel anatomically comfortable. Pets can suffer from anxiety, depression, and even a shorter life span if they experience gender identity disorders. Some signs and symptoms of a gender related issue in your pet may consist of your pet sleeping too much, a lack in desire to play, eating too much or too little, agitation, irritation, and an unwillingness to acclimate to your family.

The gender change process has been made easy for even the most inexperienced pet owners. Veterinarians across the nation are currently receiving state-of-the-art training and education on successfully performing the surgery for your pet. Pet psychologists are also available around the clock to answer your questions or concerns.

Do your dog or cat a favor, and speak to your vet about whether or not they may be suffering from a gender identity disorder, today. It is never too soon to ask, and your pet will love you unconditionally for doing so.