Fiorina: “Clinton won’t be able to 'play the gender card' Against Me, Everybody Likes Girl-On-Girl Action”
“Washington, D.C. – Potential Republican presidential contender Carly Fiorina said Thursday that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton won’t be able to “play the gender card” if she faces off against a woman in the presidential contest.

“Fiorina told reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast: “I think that if Hillary Clinton were to face a female nominee, there are a whole set of things that she won’t be able to talk about. She won’t be able to talk about being the first woman president. She won’t be able to talk about a war on women without being challenged. She won’t be able to play the gender card.”

“Fiorina said in a female vs. female presidential match-up, Clinton would have to run on “her track record, her accomplishments, her candor and trustworthiness and her policies.” She continued: “And I think that’s what elections should be run on – not identity politics, not what you look like, but who you are, and what you believe, and what you’ve done, and what you will do.”

“The former Hewlett-Packard CEO is publicly undecided on whether to run for president, but she’s been making preparations for a campaign, traveling to early primary states to gauge interest in a potential bid. This week she’ll be in New Hampshire with the rest of the potential and announced GOP presidential contenders for the Republican leadership summit, hosted by the New Hampshire Republican Party.

“She’s been an outspoken critic of Clinton since the Democrat launched her campaign this last weekend, charging Tuesday that Clinton “lacks accomplishment” and knocking her on equal pay for women on Facebook. But Fiorina argued Thursday that aside from her gender, her business experience made her uniquely qualified for the presidency. “I’m not a neophyte in government, but I’m not a professional politician,” she said. She later added: “I understand how the world works.”

In an exclusive interview with Newslo, Fiorina stated that “Clinton is known to be well-prepared for every public appearance in her schedule,” but that “she’d have a hard time preparing for a debate with another female.”

“Everybody loves a girl-on-girl fight, that’s no secret,” Fiorina pointed out. “I can’t tell you which of the two of us would win, but I can say she’d definitely have her hands full with me. My unique business experience puts me in a position to view things from another, more professional angle, and that’s something she’ll never have. She just hasn’t done enough for this country to be worthy of presidency.”

And then, the gloves finally came off: “Who am I kidding? I would totally obliterate her in a debate. There is just too much at stake.”