Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr. on Pressure of Running Their Company Video
Transcript for Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr. on Pressure of Running Their Company

the free world. But his sons have other shoes to fill. Their father's. While Donald Trump remains in Washington, D.C., his adult sons will return home to New York and take over the reigns of their father's billion dollar businesses. For the men who told they they had been in the white house, the trump address is the only one that matters at least for the next four years. Reporter: Pause for a moment and consider -- what must it be like for Donald Trump to call you "Son?" Eric and Donald Jr. -- The original apprentices -- know the answer. I think on that criteria, Eric and I probably agree with you. He was always kind of a father and a mentor and a boss. Reporter: I sat down with Eric, with his wife Lara, and don Jr. Earlier this week to talk about growing up trump. We'd run in to give him a kiss before we went to, to school in the morning. And he'd look at us. I was 5 or 6 years old. He'd always look at us, "No drinking, no drugs, no smoking. And, by the way, you've -- At five? "And by the way, you guys better get good grades." Exactly. At five. I go, "Dad, what's drinking? What's drugs? What's smoking?" This is my room, it's kinda like going back in time. Reporter: Showing off their childhood bedrooms, the two princes of the trump empire told Barbara Walters in 2004 that they grew up with priceless Manhattan views. The cabs, they always look like micro machines, they're just so small from up here. This is a blast of nostalgia. Reporter: But it wasn't always limos and bespoke suits. The two boys learned to fish and hunt while summering with mother Ivana's frugal working class parents in czechoslovakia. And don Jr. Went through a rebellious phase -- first as a hard partying college kid, then an aspen ski bum who sometimes hid his famous last name. There were times when you just didn't want to have to deal with everyone making those assumptions however ignorant they may be. I would introduce myself as just don or avoid the last name at all costs. Reporter: But in 2001, don Jr. Ante'd back in -- starting at his dad's Atlantic City casino working outside as a dock attendant. Then, along with brother Eric, they labored in construction for the trump organization, cutting trees, riding tractors. Making their way up alongside sister ivanka. With the four of us, I think we just have a great opportunity to just take over the city and -- To take over the city? To take over the city. Stop thinking so small, Eric. Think, the world. Reporter: Okay, so maybe ambition is genetic. Now the sons are top organization executives and their hard-driving father has attained the most ambitious goal of all. Do you call him Mr. President? Seriously, he is now the president. Not just your father. I walked into his office, and said, Mr. President-elect, and he smiles. Reporter: The brothers have new titles. The younger, the mountaineer, and Eric known for his silent strength is code named marksman. But despite the security arrangements, they will be staying in New York. Especially with Barron and Melania staying here, will your dad move into the white house? How much time will he spend there? He'll be there. 50/50? Virtually all of to his time will be there. His working time. He doesn't do anything halfway. Is any part of you jealous that your sister gets to play more of a role? There's an element. Anybody would be able to do that, but I'm content with the decision we have made to stay here. Reporter: Keeping 39-year-old don Jr. Company here are his wife Vanessa and five children and brother, Eric. Married to wife Lara. They never imagined their first few years of marriage would be spent on a campaign trail. It was not in the plan, but you can't plan for this. Election night was our two-year anniversary, and it was an incredible way to spend it with our whole family. Reporter: Just last week, the boys were by their father's side again as the president-elect announced his plan to end conflict of interest criticism by turning his business holdings over to them, and as always, expectations will be high. If they do a bad job, I'll say, you're fired. No pressure. No pressure. What could go wrong? Seriously though, how is this going to work? You're never going to speak to your dad about business? You have been intimately involved with him and business for years. 16 years now, and we understand how this business works. You're in each other's office seven times a day. How will you pull the plug on that? My father has the biggest responsibility of any person arguably on the planet. His focus will be running this country, and my focus will be running a great company. And you will never discuss this, like, over family dinner? Nothing? You can't even ask me how it's going? It's important to keep separation of church and state. There has been a huge outcry of some ethics experts that it will not remove the suspicion that your father is profiting from the office of presidency, and he needs to divest the company. You use the word suspicion, and that's all it is. We have taken sfrooextraordinary measures. Why not just divest and silence them for once and for all? It's a multibillion dollar company. It would take years to do it, and there would beg the question of, is that person paying a premium? There is no win on this. One of the things your father infamously said is he would be so presidential he would be boring. When is that going to happen dpa exactly? You have to ask him that question. It's amazing. He wrote the rules of politics in this country and around the world. He is still rewriting them. Often on Twitter. Reporter: But along with rewriting the rules, many have said he has also frequently crossed line. When you are tweeting out things like liar, loser, sleaze bag, is that how the president should be talking? Sometimes he right. Doesn't mean he should say it. I see how deceptive the media can be. And if he can get to the source, that's great. His words were dangerous a few days ago when he equates U. Intelligence to Nazi Germany. Do you think he'll pull back on the Twitter? He will, but if something happens, he'll call them out. Does he know that the nation is hanging on every syllable. Probably in the politically correct, but I don't care. Tell me about how you feel about people who don't like your dad. What do they not know? He has a heart of gold, and he has been a great father to don, ivanka and I. Are you going to fight? Even the people protoasting the streets will be protesting on inauguration day. I think once they see he cares about this country and they have more money, and their children have a better outlook on life, and education and real hope for the future, I think those people may not tell anyone, but they are going to vote for him for a second term.

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.