Newlywed Parents Carry Cancer-Stricken Toddler After Hospital Wedding
The powerful image of a couple as they carry their 2-year-old child through a hospital hallway is capturing hearts across the nation.

Celia and Geff Kinzel wed this month in the chapel of Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, where their son Logan is a patient. After the Jan. 7 ceremony, Logan's grandmother took a photo of his going back to his room with his mother and father.

"Everyone was really touched by it," Celia Kinzel told ABC News of the photo. "I really hope from all of this, that it does bring awareness to pediatric cancer. Before this happened to Logan, I thought it was rare. I hope this sheds some light on it and people see that it's common."

Renee Freeman Photography

Logan Kinzel was diagnosed with stage 4 brain cancer a second time in November and has done five rounds of chemotherapy.

"He is a charmer, he will just look at you and you fall in love with him," Kinzel said. "He is still smiling and playing. He had his days where he wants to lay down and be cozy all day but, for the most part, he's just a happy 2-year-old."

Logan has been staying at the hospital since his second diagnosis. Because of this, his parents, who were engaged in 2015, decided to move up their wedding, which was originally scheduled for June 2, 2018.

Renee Freeman Photography

Celia, 26, and Geff Kinzel, 32, were married in the hospital chapel among family members, including sons Logan and Rowan, 4.

On the way out, Kinzel's mother, Megan Dempsey, 49, snapped a photo of her daughter, son-in-law and grandson. Both Dempsey and the hospital later shared it on their Facebook pages.

"I was chasing them down the hallway ... they were going back up to Logan's hospital room and it was just a lucky snap of a picture," Dempsey of Columbus told ABC News. "We were so happy that Logan was able to come down. It was just a nice day for Celia and Geff and a nice break from what's really been such a difficult time."

Megan Dempsey

Nationwide Children's Hospital said it does its best to accommodate special occasions "in the best interest of the patient."

"We are happy for the Kinzel family and glad they had such a lovely ceremony," a hospital representative wrote to ABC News.

Kinzel hopes she and her family can make up lost time with Logan after he completes his treatments, she said.