Amy Sherman-Palladino And Daniel Palladino Are Standing By The Final Four Words In “Gilmore Girls”
Rory (Alexis Bledel) and Lorelai (Lauren Graham) in the final scene of Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life. Netflix ID: 10085976

After seven seasons and a bonus four-episode revival on Netflix, Gilmore Girls came to a close as creator Amy Sherman-Palladino had always intended.

“Mom,” Rory (Alexis Bledel) says to Lorelai (Lauren Graham) as they sit on the steps of the Stars Hollow gazebo.

“Yeah?” Lorelai asks.

Rory turns to face her mother. “I’m pregnant,” she says.

And then, the screen cuts to black.

Those final four words — specifically, the final two — of Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life elicited shock from fans, who now have many questions: Is it Logan’s (Matt Czuchry) baby? What does this mean for the future of Logan and Rory’s relationship? And what about Jess (Milo Ventimiglia), who longingly stares at Rory without her knowing, alluding to the fact that he still loves her?

“I think that somebody as smart as Rory is going to take a step back and look at all the angles.” ID: 10086028

But, according to Sherman-Palladino, Gilmore Girls fans shouldn’t assume Rory is going to keep the baby.

In a phone interview with BuzzFeed News this week, Sherman-Palladino, joined by her husband and Gilmore Girls executive producer Daniel Palladino, said there’s “absolutely” a chance Rory “would not forgo this alone.”

“There’s nothing harder in the world than being a parent,” Sherman-Palladino said. “And if you are not equipped mentally, financially, emotionally, to take that on, you can’t do it because the consequences are ridiculous.”

Sherman-Palladino continued: “The abortion issue is so weird, you know, because it’s so testy with the world, especially the KKK world that we now live in. But I think that somebody as smart as Rory is going to take a step back and look at all the angles, and then make her decision, because it’s too important a job to make the wrong decision when it comes to kids.”

Rory and Logan (Matt Czuchry) together in London. Netflix ID: 10086208

In the revival, Rory is a 32-year-old woman who doesn’t quite have her life together. After struggling to find a steady job, she moves home to Stars Hollow, decides to write a memoir (which doesn’t have any promise of getting published), and eventually ends her affair with Logan, who is engaged to another woman. Her situation is less than ideal, as far as timing to become a parent goes.

Sherman-Palladino said, “unless [Rory] thought, I’m really going to make a go at this and that’s really going to make me happy, and I’m really gonna make this kid happy,” she doesn’t think she would have the baby. Not to mention, “32 is frickin’ young, man.”

While abortion was not all that common on television in the early 2000s when Gilmore Girls first aired, A Year in the Life premiered on Netflix in a different cultural environment. In the past year, we’ve seen Scandal, Jane the Virgin, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, and You’re the Worst all feature abortion storylines, the latter three of which were rather inconsequential.

Rory in Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life. Netflix ID: 10086236

But in order to see what future Rory ultimately decides, there would need to be more episodes of Gilmore Girls. While there’s a lot of discussion and desire for the show to continue, Sherman-Palladino says she doesn’t know if she wants to do more.

“We’re just very, very proud of these four episodes in A Year in the Life,” she said. “And for now, we’re going to leave it at that.”

There are plenty of fans who are upset that they may never get resolution to Rory’s storyline, including some members of Daniel Palladino’s family. “I’m getting a lot of angry letters from my nieces and younger cousins that they want more [Gilmore Girls episodes],” he said. “They’re the angriest, by the way.” But no matter what happens, he and Sherman-Palladino stand by their decision to end the series the way they did.

“We didn’t do it to drive people crazy,” Palladino said. “It felt right for Rory not to solve everything in this journey.” The couple very intentionally wanted an “open ending” for Rory instead of portraying a cliché, happily-ever-after where she figures out solutions to each and every one of her problems.

“Your life should not have a bow on it at 32.” ID: 10086072

“We don’t like tying things up with bows because life isn’t like that, so we didn’t want an ending where it was like, And they all lived happily ever after. Proceed to vomit now,” Sherman-Palladino said.

“Your life should not have a bow on it at 32. Your life should be a wide-open field at 32 years old.”