Review: August Wilson’s ‘Jitney’ Magnifies Marginalized Souls
The mantra “Black lives matter” seems addressed as much to obliviousness as to hostility within the white establishment. And it’s hard not to flinch when, in “Jitney,” an older taxi driver advises a young colleague: “You just have to shake off that ‘white folks is against me’ attitude. Hell, they don’t even know you’re alive.”

Photo

There’s no way a theatergoer can watch “Jitney,” a Manhattan Theater Club production, without feeling the pulsing, defiant aliveness of every character onstage. Set in the late 1970s, this was the first play Wilson wrote in his great 10-play cycle portraying 10 decades of history in the Hill District of Pittsburgh.

“Jitney” is also the work, Wilson said, in which he found his voice as a dramatist, one that borrowed from the musical traditions of blues and jazz, transliterated into spoken dialogue and monologues of Shakespearean eloquence. It is a language that makes lives perceived as marginal not only visible but monumental.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This magnifying focus summons thoughts of another great American dramatist, Arthur Miller, and his belief in the possibilities of the common man as a tragic hero. Wilson’s most direct answer to Miller’s “Death of a Salesman” was his Pulitzer Prize-winning “Fences,” seen on Broadway in 1987 and the basis for the current excellent film directed by and starring Denzel Washington.

No single character dominates “Jitney” the way that the Olympian Troy Maxson bestrides “Fences.” If there is a central figure in “Jitney,” it’s the hard-working, tension-diffusing Becker, who runs the car service that gives the play its plot and structure. In that role, John Douglas Thompson builds to a heroic blaze of frustration and indignation that reminds you why he is one of this country’s greatest classical actors (“Macbeth,” “Othello,” “Tamburlaine”). But Mr. Thompson does not — and should not — eclipse our sense of “Jitney” as a group portrait.

Wilson was not only saying that black lives matter, but also that black life matters. The world portrayed in “Jitney” is a self-contained microcosm, shaped by privation, obstruction and a make-do resourcefulness that becomes its own art form.

David Gallo’s set exudes an aura of both contingency and vibrancy. We are in the ramshackle room out of which Becker and his fleet of drivers operate their gypsy cab service, taking calls on a rotary pay phone. Every stick of furniture, from the battered refrigerator to the coffee table on concrete blocks, has the look of salvage.

Video

Large windows with commanding views of the street are screens of a sort for the greatest soap opera in town — the lives of the drivers’ friends and neighbors. You might also note that the stage is raked, with the floor sloping toward the audience; a man unsure of his footing could slide right off the edge.

For everyone in “Jitney” is balancing over a chasm: the prospect of poverty, homelessness, alcoholism, prison and abrupt, imminent death. The everyday chatter — and such chatter is the warp and weft of “Jitney” — often involves getting and spending, the itemization of food and housing costs, of landing jobs with a criminal record, or where a body might find a bed that night.

All of Becker’s drivers need the work. So they are chilled to learn that the city plans to tear down their building, along with most of the old structures that define the cityscape of the Hill. The official word is that housing projects will take their place, but no one is really expecting that to happen.

The specter of the wrecking ball provides the most far-reaching dramatic tension. But “Jitney” gives equal stage time to all manner of personal frictions and confrontations, many of which anticipate themes that echo throughout Wilson’s later work.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They include the clash of paternal and filial expectations, here embodied by Becker and his son, Booster (Brandon J. Dirden), newly out of prison for a racially motivated murder; and the respective needs of men and women in forging a life together, rendered by a beautifully matched André Holland, as the fiery Vietnam veteran Youngblood, and Carra Patterson, as his pragmatic partner.

There are nine characters in “Jitney,” and it is remarkable how much we learn about each of them within two and a half hours. Every person we meet has a story that forces us to refocus and rethink first impressions, to see the layers beneath the flashy or shabby suits. (The fabulous, time-tripping 1970s costumes are by Toni-Leslie James.)

Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

There’s the company sot, Fielding (Anthony Chisholm, with a voice from the bottom of a bottle), who turns out to have been a coveted tailor for Billy Eckstine and Count Basie. The numbers runner Shealy (Harvy Blanks) tells the story of the woman who cursed him into seeing her face on that of all subsequent lovers. The soft-spoken, cautious Doub (Keith Randolph Smith) has harrowing tales of his time in the Army, when he stacked dead bodies in Korea.

And while the officious yenta in residence, the nattering Turnbo (Michael Potts), may seem like an old-womanish gossip, he’s the one who’s fast to pull a gun. Even Philmore (Ray Anthony Thomas), the hotel doorman, who makes only fleeting appearances, feels like someone we know in our bones. (Thrown out by his wife, and headed to his mother’s house, he says: “Mama don’t like to see you comin’. But she will take you in.”)

Their back stories emerge through sly asides, testy debate and those ravishing, aria-like soliloquies for which Wilson is famous. Very little that’s spoken, though, feels merely expository or interpolated. Storytelling is the default mode of speech here; it gives form, substance and almost ceremonial style to existences that might otherwise feel all too tangential.

Conversation becomes performance art, and part of the pleasure of watching this peerless cast is the delight its characters take in listening to the others riffing. What they say is often sad and hilarious, angry and resigned in a single breath. And though there’s not a white person in the show — and very little polemical speechifying — you come to see this emotional complexity as a specific response to a white man’s world that thwarts these men at every turn.

“Time go along and it come around,” says Doub. Though “Jitney” takes place nearly 40 years ago, it feels even more topically resonant than the first (and last) time I saw it, in Marion McClinton’s fine 2000 production for Second Stage Theater.

That many of the societal problems faced by its characters remain almost exactly the same is shaming and sobering. Yet their collective voice is joyfully intoxicating. “Jitney” is a lament that has the affirmative ring of celebration.