Is This Los Angeles’s $600 Million Man?
“If they do this” — at this, Mr. Govan paused to amend his remarks – “when they do this, not if — it will be a new high-water mark for collective action, for achievement in the cultural space and in the philanthropic space of Los Angeles. It is not a large goal. We’re going to do it. They are going to write the checks. And they are going to be happy to do it.”

There is a sort of cautious optimism here that Mr. Govan will be able to wrangle his money, all the more so since he announced the latest $75 million, including $50 million from Elaine Wynn, an art collector who is the co-chair of the museum, and $25 million from A. Jerrold Perenchio, a former Univision chairman who has bequeathed the bulk of his art estate to the new museum. “I think the old days of the claim that perhaps L.A. was not — and more specifically, Lacma was not — a target of sustained contribution are increasingly behind us,” said Mark Ridley-Thomas, a member of the county Board of Supervisors.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The optimism reflects a growing self-confidence about this city’s cultural status, but also the skills and personal force that Mr. Govan — with an intensity belied by an easygoing smile — has brought with him from New York.

“It’s going to take a couple of very significant donors to get this over the hump,” said David C. Bohnett, a wealthy philanthropist and board trustee. He added, “It would be much harder if there wasn’t the enthusiasm and the unanimous support of the board.”

Photo

A conversation with Mr. Govan can be an exhausting torrent of ideas and provocations, from his proclamation that the city’s homeless crisis could be solved, given the wealth and intellectual capital here, to what seemed an almost offhand idea of building a Frank Gehry skyscraper across from the museum, which would tower over a charming, low-lying neighborhood of mission revival homes.

“There’s not a city in America that will look as different in 30 years as L.A. will look,” Mr. Govan said. “They are tearing down whole city blocks as we are speaking. I love it.”

“It’s changing,” he said. “Don’t you see it before your eyes? Out your window? Since it’s going to change, what’s it going to change into? I’m not sure I know. I am certainly drawn to the fact that each of us is going to have a little impact on it.”

Members of his Board of Trustees say meetings with Mr. Govan veer into tutorials on the history of art. “Whenever we are together, it’s like after we finish doing our Lacma business, he gets this drug dealer look in his eyes and is like, ‘You want to go so see some art?’” Ms. Wynn said. “I think what’s driving him is this sense of history and timing. Michael accurately perceives that the pulse of newness and creativity is happening in L.A. now.”

Photo

Mr. Govan is clearly an admirer of Los Angeles, even as he acknowledges its challenges.

“When I moved here, people in New York said to me, ‘L.A. is self-centered and everybody does their own thing; it’s not a good place to do a public big museum,’” he said. “There was this rap on L.A. — and I think some of this is true — that it is a wonderful place to be a creative individual. You have tremendous freedom to work on your own, you can be anonymous, and you can be eccentric. But what L.A. has not done well is the collective of people working together for public goals. The museum world is just a reflection of that. It’s mostly been people doing things on their own.”

Mr. Govan’s campaign comes as the Los Angeles art world is churning. The Broad Museum, exhibiting Eli and Edythe Broad’s collection of modern art, opened downtown in 2015, and on the other side of the cultural tracks, Hauser & Wirth took over a sprawling old flour mill in the Arts District, turning it into a museum-scale gallery that is already crowded on weekends. This city is awaiting the April opening of a private art museum from Maurice and Paul Marciano, Guess co-founders, in a renovated Masonic Temple in Koreatown. The Santa Monica Museum of Art is moving to the downtown Arts District this fall, with a new name: the Institute of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. And George Lucas, the filmmaker, after years of “site wars,” recently announced he would bring his Museum of Narrative Art to Exposition Park and fund the project — about $1 billion — himself.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“There’s no question that the art scene in Los Angeles has become dramatically elevated on the global stage,” said Casey Wasserman, an entertainment executive and museum trustee. “It’s our time.”

Mr. Govan said that Los Angeles stood out today as a city where art is being made — as artists flock here to take advantage of the light and the space — rather than a place where it is being shared with the public. “You could argue that there is no city that is more vibrant,” he said. “You may argue there are cities as vibrant — Berlin is very vibrant; New York City outside of Manhattan is very vibrant.”

But he said that alone does not make Los Angeles the cultural capital it aspires to be. “I say this to my board: ‘You can’t just be boastful and say L.A. is going to be one of the greatest cultural cities on earth. That’s not a forgone conclusion. Even with all the artists. You can’t sit back and watch. That’s why the museum is important.’”

There are few people who would quarrel with his record so far. “His vision has been to turn the Lacma campus into a center for L.A. and it’s working,” Mr. Yaroslavsky said. “It has indeed become L.A.’s living room, a magnet. And when the Zumthor museum opens, it will exponentially increase the power of that magnet.”

Mr. Bohnett said that Mr. Govan has “deep and established East Coast roots” but that no matter the temptation of working in a place like New York, he could not see him leaving.

“Where is the place he can make his biggest mark?” Mr. Bohnett said. “It’s Los Angeles.”