The Downsizing of Nathaniel Ames
If you take the “downsizing” part seriously and have been doing this for a while, you might have sussed out that you were going to be required to shrink down famous people’s names (or “N. Ames,” from Nathaniel Ames) to make something else. Maybe it’s a familiar phrase that you never realized could begin with a word that can also be a famous person’s first initial and surname. For example, at 31A, we have a mysterious clue that rhymes and calls up memories of an athlete banned from the Hall of Fame: “‘Charlie Hustle is my name / I am banned from Hall of Fame,’ e.g.?” You might have guessed that the clue referred to Pete Rose, but how to turn it into an acceptable entry? The answer is in the downsizing of the name:

PETE ROSE = P. ROSE = the phrase PROSE POETRY

That’s pretty clever and, for the most part, all of the theme entries worked really well for me. MALI EMPIRE was outside my wheelhouse, or perhaps I just need to brush up on my African history.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Here is the explanation of the entire theme set.

And bonus points for the whopping 18 debut entries today, as well as for the exceptional fill.

Tricky Clues

■ 26A: If there are two things necessary for having a good time, I say it’s “sharp projectiles and alcohol,” which turns out to be BEER DARTS, a game that makes its New York Times Crossword debut. At some point, someone will incorporate crossword puzzle solving by pinning a puzzle up on the wall, and then it will really be a party.

■ 83A: I am old enough to remember when these were mix tapes on cassette, but MIX CDS are also a thing. I suppose you can also have mix mp3s, but where is the romance in a playlist that you can’t physically give to someone? I might have finally reached the age of curmudgeonery, but “I wanted to ask you out, so I downloaded a special playlist of songs for you and shared it on social media” does not have the same ring to it as a physical tape or CD that you can slip to that special someone. Please debate and discuss in the comments.

■ 10D: I happen to love anteaters, and I love them even more now that I know that they are also called ANTBEARS. #TIL

■ 13D: What a great and creepy clue. “He was buried in 1915 and died in 1926” refers to HARRY HOUDINI, who attempted the “Buried Alive” trick in 1915 and who died in 1926.

■ 27D: The RETCON, short for “retroactive continuity,” is a literary and television plot device used by the former “Doctor Who” showrunner Steven Moffat to drive people insane. More generally, it’s a new piece of information floated at a later date to explain or give a different interpretation on previously described events, which helps clear up inconsistencies in plot movement.

Constructors’s Notes

Erik Agard: It’s always a pleasure to collaborate with Peter (an indie crossword legend and one of the most brilliant people I have the good fortune of knowing) and this puzzle was no exception. I’m happy we were able to sneak a shout out to another indie puzzling titan into the grid. Did you spot it? [Ooo! Ooo! I did! — D. A.] Also, a tough bonus puzzler: What’s a two-word, 10-letter phrase that consists of two names “downsized” like the ones in this theme? Hint: The names are both actresses, one from the ‘60s and one who is contemporary.

Thanks to Mr. Broda and Mr. Agard, we’re off to a great start to our 2017 solving.

Your thoughts?