From Mystery to History: Pennsylvania’s Bygone Lumber Industry
Though Harry Littell was teaching digital photography to Lois Barden, she came to class one day in 2004 with a question about a much older process. She had with her a box of 8-by-10 glass plate negatives that she had found 30 years earlier in a shed belonging to her husband’s grandmother near Rochester, N.Y. She asked her teacher what he thought. When he started scanning the plates, Mr. Littell was amazed. There were images of logging camps, railroads, studio portraits, children and outdoor scenes.

“This was a foreign world unlike anything I really knew,” said Mr. Littell, the chairman of photography at Tompkins Cortland Community College in Dryden, N.Y. “I was amazed at the detail, the mystery of these images. There were people and horses in a woodland setting, and immediately I wanted to know: What are the stories that explain these people and their situation? Are there any connections to us?”

Those questions started him on a meandering path that ended with the discovery that the photos had been taken in Pennsylvania, starting in the late 19th century, by William T. Clarke, a photographer who had worked in the area for some 40 years. With Ronald E. Ostman, an emeritus professor of graduate communications at Cornell and Mr. Littell’s collaborator on previous books, he assembled a detailed look at a bygone world in “Wood Hicks and Bark Peelers,” published by Penn State University Press.

Photo

The book, whose title comes from names given to certain jobs at lumber camps, chronicles how the country’s unceasing demand for wood — for railroads, trestles and houses — transformed Pennsylvania’s landscape from virgin forest to desolation. It also brings to light the work of Mr. Clarke, whose detailed negatives displayed a certain flair.

“There is so much humanity in those pictures,” Mr. Littell said.

Mr. Ostman saw familiar scenes in the images. He grew up in northern Minnesota, and both of his grandfathers were in the lumber business. “A lot of it was familiar to me,” he said. “What impressed me was I had never seen 8-by-10 glass plate negatives, but when you scan and blow them up, you see every little thing.”

Photo

It took some sleuthing to root out the stories. Starting with information scratched onto the edges of the negatives, as well as details from locomotives, they narrowed down the area to Pennsylvania. While researching at the Pennsylvania State Archives, they met Linda A. Ries, who recognized the work as Mr. Clarke’s because the images were similar to ones in the archive that had been rescued from a leaky barn.

Ms. Ries did some genealogical research, which led her to the name Isabel Mayo. Though it meant nothing to Mr. Littell, the name jolted Ms. Barden: Isabel Mayo was her husband’s grandmother, who had kept the box of negatives in her shed.

As one could imagine, life in the lumber camps was rough. The workers were isolated for a good part of the year and prohibited from drinking (and sometimes even speaking at meals), and one of the few comforts they had was good food. And while some of the pictures showed a certain quiet, almost pastoral, tone, the men depicted were rough-and-tumble.

“When they hit town, usually on the Fourth of July, they were ready to rock and roll when they got into town,” Mr. Ostman said. “They were victims of cabin fever from being isolated in the boonies for nine months. They got drunk immediately and took it out on the townspeople, or they started fighting among themselves. They had spikes in their boots, and when they fought, the idea was to get the other guy down and spike his face. They called it logger’s smallpox.”

Photo

Mr. Clarke spent 40 years in Pennsylvania before returning to the Rochester area to be with family. By then, the landscape had been cleared, and the lumber companies had moved on to other states. The glass plates that were later discovered in Rochester may have been favorites that Mr. Clarke decided to keep.

Among them are group portraits of lumber workers, which was as much an economic choice as an aesthetic one: The more people in the image, the more photos could be sold. As a result, there are probably descendants of loggers who have more of Mr. Clarke’s images in their homes. With the publication of this book, they may now have some answers not just on their family history, but on that of Pennsylvania.

“There is this whole environmental story,” Mr. Littell said. “This whole boom-to-bust story. Clarke was able to get to the tail end of the virgin hemlock forest. At the end, you see where everything was logged off. It took a hundred years for it to grow back. Now, it’s beautiful.”

Follow @dgbxny and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram.