Putting The Times’s First Email Address to Bed
I had stumbled across the ARPAnet a decade earlier when there was little computer security. To get my first email address I had only to use my 300-baud modem to dial the NASA-Ames “tip” in Mountain View, Calif. and make my way to a computer in Cambridge known as MIT-AI. Anyone who could find their way there was automatically awarded an account on the system. It afforded me an easy way to read the Human-Nets mailing list — a revealing window into a continuing discussion about the impact of technology by those who were building the computer-based systems that would transform society during the next two decades.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By the late 1980s there were already lots of email systems around — the Source, CompuServe, MCIMail and Prodigy all were offering electronic mail islands. The online world was only beginning to be interconnected.

When I arrived at The Times I was using an email account on a Sausalito, Calif., conferencing system known as the Well. It seemed that markoff@nyt.com would be a nice way to announce the fact that I was the Times reporter whose beat was computer networking. (To thoroughly date me, I gave up the beat when I moved back to California in 1992 to cover Silicon Valley, and Peter Lewis was given the newly created internet beat.)

In any case, before leaving in 1990 or 1991 I had toyed with the idea of putting together a mail server on a loaner computer that had shown up in the newsroom from NeXt, Steve’s Jobs’s interim company while he was in exile from Apple.

It didn’t take long to realize that I wasn’t going to be my own system administrator, at which point I quickly moved markoff@nyt.com to Internex, an ISP based in Menlo Park, Calif., that was the first ISDN (broadband of its day!) internet service provider in Northern California.

At that point there were few people in the mainstream media world using email. Indeed, the Times masthead was alerted to the impending impact of electronic mail only after Bill Gates came to lunch with the paper’s editors. When they asked Mr. Gates how he ran his company, he told them he used this thing called “email.” Of course, in traditional Times-style, that generated this A1 story.

There was a brief period in which using electronic mail as a technology reporter was a competitive advantage. It was a way to directly contact people in organizations, cutting out the middleman. That quickly changed, yet my proto-Times email address would live happily in obscurity until it was compromised by an on-the-run computer outlaw named Kevin Mitnick. He believed that I was attempting to track him down. He broke into Internex and began spying on my email account, a fact I was made aware of when a digital Sherlock Holmes named Tsutomu Shimomura actually began pursuing Mr. Mitnick, after having been deputized to do so by the then-assistant United States attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice (who is now Google’s general counsel). It took about two weeks, but Mr. Shimomura would help the F.B.I. apprehend Mr. Mitnick in Raleigh-Durham, N.C. Because I was being spied on, I found that I had become part of the story.

The next year, in 1995, when The Times finally went online, I dutifully offered the nyt.com domain to the paper. To my surprise, initially The Times turned my offer down. (Do you have any idea what a three-letter domain is worth these days?) I was told that nyt.com would be confused with the internet address of New York Telephone, which still existed at the time.

Recently I learned from Walter Baranger, one of the paper’s early telecommunications people, that to put the paper online he and a group of IT systems people sat in a room and picked the paper’s domain name. Although nyt.com was a contender, it lost out to nytimes.com after a fair amount of debate.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For about a year I continued to receive mail at markoff@nyt.com. I didn’t bother to run a web server — as I would infamously note several years later, my “blog” was www.nytimes.com — and so anyone who typed nyt.com would end up with a dreaded “404” error.

About a year later one of the systems people came back to me and asked if I would give nyt.com to the paper, and I did. The deal I struck was that in exchange for the domain I would be able to continue to get mail at markoff@nyt.com.

I continued to receive mail at that address through this past December, although every couple of years someone in the systems department would disconnect me and I would have to remind them of the agreement. During that time it became a tremendous spam magnet and so I let it go at the end of 2016 with only a small amount of remorse.