The Good, the Bad and the Future for Trump's HHS Nominee Tom Price
By Dr. Kevin Campbell

Published January 18, 2017 | FoxNews.com



Rep Tom Price has faced escalating criticism in the days leading up to his confirmation hearings. Price, an orthopedic surgeon, has been involved with the medical device industry (particularly in the orthopedics space) both as a physician, as a congressman, and as an investor.

On Wednesday, he faced the first of two hearings. Democrats aggressively pressed him on his financial dealings with health care related stocks during the time in which he was actively pushing legislation in Congress that may have directly benefited many of the companies in which he was invested.

In addition, Dr. Price faced stiff questions about the future of health care in the U.S. and his plans for ensuring that millions of Americans would not be left without health care following the almost certain repeal of ObamaCare.

Here’s The Good

Dr Price has been an outspoken critic of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and has worked diligently on legislation to repeal and replace the health care law. As a physician, he has long-standing experience with the inner workings of the American health care system and is very well equipped to provide insight into the failings of the ACA.

After 20 years of practice as a surgeon, Rep. Price not only has a real appreciation for the doctor-patient relationship, but also has a unique perspective on how government intrusion into the exam room has negatively impacted care. As a fellow physician and colleague, I believe that it is essential that we have someone (like Price) who has been on the front lines of health care delivery intimately involved in its reform. Politicians know politics—doctors know patients and how best to deliver high quality care.

In the hearing, Dr. Price addressed several important health care related issues and responded with answers that indicate that significant changes would likely take place within the HHS during his tenure. As a practicing cardiologist, several of these issues would directly and positively impact my ability to care for patients and improve public health in general.