Gaslight review – Tara Fitzgerald plays it straight in enjoyably ludicrous potboiler
Tara Fitzgerald may be the star of Lucy Bailey’s revival of Patrick Hamilton’s potboiler about Bella, a Victorian wife who is made to think that she is losing her mind, but it is William Dudley’s design that is the real eye-catcher. Doors and floors appear to lurch vertiginously, reflecting Bella’s perilous mental state, and the twisting staircase and upper floors of her old house are revealed with creepy effectiveness using video projection.

Hamilton’s 1938 play was made into a film by Thorold Dickinson in 1940, and again in 1944 by George Cukor, with Ingrid Bergman. It was influential enough for the term gaslighting, meaning a form of psychological manipulation and mental abuse, to enter the scientific literature. It may have scientific credibility, but in theatrical terms it’s a load of creaky old tosh.

But hugely enjoyable creaky old tosh. Bailey’s production recognises that the flaws can’t be fixed and that the director, actors and audience all need to embrace them, even when it’s hard to take the plotting seriously. Particularly when the retired Inspector Rough (Paul Hunter) pops up in the drawing room like an earnest, rational leprechaun to explain to Bella that things are not quite what they seem.

No, they are even more ludicrous. No matter, because Bailey ladles on the tension and atmosphere, and quite rightly has Fitzgerald play the whole thing entirely straight. She is pale as milk, and trembles like a lamb who knows she’s on the way to the slaughter and is too exhausted to resist her fate. When Jonathan Firth’s Jack Manningham smiles, it’s like watching a boa constrictor contemplate its supper.

Rough is an impossible role and Paul Hunter acknowledges the fact by playing the Inspector with a deadpan twinkle, which makes the audience in on the joke. It works, as does Alexandra Guelff as the maid Nancy, a young woman with an eye to her own advancement, and entirely blind to the truth of what is going on in the house.