Personalize your news settings
You can set up Google News to show the topics you want to see and give you news based on where you are.

Choose which news topics you see

Sign in to Google News. At the top right, click Personalize. Under "Personalize Google News," use the sliders to adjust what news sections you see, or add a topic using the text box. Under "Adjust sources," use the sliders to adjust how often news sources appear in results you see, or add a source using the text box. Click Save.

To remove a topic section, follow the steps above and point your cursor to the section you want to remove. Click . To add a section back, at the bottom of the list, click .

To turn off all personalization and use the standard version of Google News instead, click Personalize Reset.

Add a custom section

You can add special sections about topics you’re interested in.

Sign in to Google News. On the top right, click Personalize. At the bottom of the section list, in the box that says "Add any news topic," enter your search terms. For example, to create a section about space, you could enter terms like "NASA, Mars, rover, astronomy." Click .

Change your location

The local weather and news sections show info for your city or town.

To change your location:

Sign in to Google News. On the right, scroll to the section that names your location. Next to your location, click Change location. In the text box, enter your city, state, or zip code. Click Save changes.

See news for a different country & language

Google News gives you results for a specific country and language based on the language of your browser or computer address.

If you switch to another language and personalize it, you lose your original settings.

To change your country and language:

Sign in to Google News. At the top, select your language using the Down arrow .

See stories suggested for you

You may see suggestions based on your Google Web & App Activity and YouTube activity. That includes topics you’ve searched for, pages you clicked from the search results page, and topics you’ve asked to get updates on from Google Now.

To see stories suggested for you, when you’re signed in to your Google Account, in the left menu, click Suggested for you. To change what suggestions are made, click "Yes" or "No" below the article description.

Stop seeing stories based on past searches

To stop Google News from showing stories based on your past searches and browsing activity on Google: