At a pivotal political moment, Roe v. Wade unfolds again, this time on stage


Amy Newman and Sara Brunner as Norma McCorvey in “Roe.” (Jenny Graham/Oregon Shakespeare Festival)

If any play might be a worthy candidate for Take Your Daughter to Theater Week, it would be “Roe,” Lisa Loomer’s survey of the complicated and fiery underpinnings of Roe v. Wade, the U.S. Supreme Court ruling that established a woman’s right to an abortion.

Your sons could stand a grounding in this vital chapter of constitutional history, too. So even if Loomer’s work is presented by director Bill Rauch in a sometimes prosaic, finger­wagging style — prompting memories of gratingly earnest high school assemblies — the topic is important enough and the production informative enough to merit the platform the company is providing.

The piece, receiving its East Coast premiere in Arena Stage’s Kreeger Theater, arrives as a new, potentially hostile administration takes power within a couple miles of Arena’s imposing Southwest Washington complex, and a possibly historic women’s protest march fills the city the day after. These events confer on “Roe” the kind of right-place, right-time urgency that all issue plays crave. As Loomer makes plain, the guarantees enshrined in the 1973 decision are perpetually under threat, from a welter of new laws and regulations aimed at weakening its protections.

Consider “Roe,” then, a useful primer — embroidered by the emotional, religious and political motivations of its adherents and opponents — on one of the most durably contentious subjects of our time.



Sara Bruner (as Norma McCorvey) and Sarah Jane Agnew (as Sarah Weddington). (C. Stanley Photography)

With abundant care, the playwright refracts the complexity of abortion rights through the personal prisms of two emblematic real-life characters: Sarah Weddington (Sarah Jane Agnew), the Texas lawyer who brought the case, and Norma McCorvey (Sara Bruner), the Dallas woman forever known by the Everywoman sobriquet Jane Roe, and who, denied access to a medical abortion, was persuaded by Weddington to become the plaintiff.

The play, a co-production with the Oregon Shakespeare Festival and Berkeley Repertory Theatre, traces their peculiar relationship, first as allies and later, after McCorvey finds Jesus and denoun­ces Weddington, as adversaries. Loomer posits them as warriors in a wrenching conflict in which the most intimate aspects of a woman’s life are fair game for jurists, preachers, politicians and journalists. And although the portrait of a profane and erratic McCorvey isn’t flattering — “Norma wasn’t pro-choice or pro-life, she was just pro-Norma,” says her longtime lover Connie, played with wonderfully soft-spoken self-possession by Catherine Castellanos — you come to understand how unfair it was to her, to be cast in a martyr’s role.



Sarah Jane Agnew (as Sarah Weddington), Susan Lynskey, Amy Newman and Pamela Dunlap. (C. Stanley Photography)

“Roe” spends way too much time, unfortunately, showing off its research concerning civics­lesson details and biographical digressions about obscure minor characters, who, in some of the play’s archer meta-theatrical moments, quote from their own obituaries. In general, self-narration can be a lazy device, and it’s overused here, especially as Loomer is inclined to have the Weddington and McCorvey characters cite passages in the books their real-life counterparts wrote that contradicted each other about the case. You wonder whether, in a play that’s so much about litigation, the playwright thought it best to let audiences know she wasn’t straying far from primary source material.

The overly pedantic Act 1, played out on Rachel Hauck’s generic, utilitarian set with a movable central platform and a screen for projections that stretches the length of the Kreeger stage, presents the Roe v. Wade arguments before the Supreme Court in a cleverly illuminating way: Recordings of the actual questioning by then Chief Justice Warren Burger and other justices are intermingled with responses by the actors playing the lawyers for both sides.



Sarah Jane Agnew as Sarah Weddington, Susan Lynskey as Linda Coffee, Richard Elmore, Sara Brunner as Norma McCorvey and Catherine Castellanos as Connie Gonzalez in “Roe.” (Jenny Graham/Oregon Shakespeare Festival)

And dramatically, things do pick up in Act 2, when the focus shifts to the aftermath of the decision, particularly as McCorvey takes on the mantle of abortion rights crusader (when she isn’t snorting coke) and then, bizarrely, switches sides. One of the most persuasive aspects of “Roe” is the account of the period in McCorvey’s life when she was working at an abortion clinic and came under the spell of a leader of Operation Rescue, the extremist antiabortion group. Jim Abele does a first-rate job here, embodying the smooth evangelizing activist in a way that never condescends to the character.

[In ‘Roe,’ playwright Lisa Loomer aims to show both sides of abortion case]

As the chief combatants, Bruner and Agnew make for excellent sparring partners through the decades. The wired Bruner is inspired as a woman miscast for the role of feminist hero. Agnew capably holds up the more strait-laced half of this historic equation, but because Weddington’s professed vulnerabilities do not extend much beyond the parameters of the case, the character remains fairly one-dimensional. (Raquel Barreto’s unflattering costumes don’t help: they seem dreamed up primarily for comic effect.)

To the story of “Roe” is appended a contemporary scene in which a young, pregnant woman, played with commendable passion by Kenya Alexander, appeals to Weddington and McCorvey for a solution to her anguishing plight. With barriers to abortion being erected anew, and her resources limited, she wants some clear guidance about the fetus that will confirm she’s doing the right thing.

“Just tell me this — Is it a baby?” she asks. Forty-four years after the landmark case was adjudicated, this flawed but admirably probing play has the integrity to acknowledge that there’s still no easy answer.

Roe by Lisa Loomer. Directed by Bill Rauch. Set, Rachel Hauck; costumes, Raquel Barreto; lighting, Jane Cox; original music and sound, Paul James Prendergast; projections, Wendall K. Harrington; stage manager, Jeremy Eisen. With Susan Lynskey, Amy Newman, Zoe Bishop, Gina Daniels, Pamela Dunlap, Mark Bedard and Richard Elmore. About 2½ hours. Tickets, $40-$90. Through Feb. 19 at Arena Stage, 1101 Sixth St. SW. Visit arenastage.org or call 202-488-3300.