Rachel Platten Speaks Out About 'Fight Song' Being Played at Inaugural Balls
ABC News' Charli James talks to protesters on the bus ride to the Women's March in Washington D.C. from Silver Spring, Maryland.

On the Bus to the Women's March in D.C. from Silver Spring, MD

ABC News' Rachel Scott talks to protesters of all generations at the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

ABC News' Rachel Scott talks to a teacher about why he is participating in the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

ABC News' Maggie Rulli talks to demonstrators as the Women's March on Washington, D.C. gets underway.

ABC News' Charli James talks to demonstrators as they arrive at the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

ABC News' Maggie Rulli talks to protesters about why they are participating in the Women's March on Washington.

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

As Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States, the day was marked by celebrations and protests.

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

Nobody was more surprised to hear that Rachel Platten's hit single, "Fight Song," was played at President Donald Trump's inaugural balls than Platten herself.

The singer took to Twitter on Friday night to tell her fans that she did not give permission for the band the Piano Guys to cover her music.

"Fight Song" was widely regarded as Hillary Clinton's campaign song, and was regularly played at her rallies.

"While I respect the office of the President and the peaceful transfer of power, I want to make clear that at at [sic] no point did the Piano Guys ask for permission, nor did I or anyone on my team know of, approve or endorse their decision to play Fight Song tonight," she wrote.

View gallery Rachel Platten Speaks Out About 'Fight Song' Being Played at Inaugural Balls (ABC News)

Live Updates: President Donald Trump Celebrates at Inaugural Balls

After the Piano Guys played "Fight Song" at the Freedom Ball and the Liberty Ball people questioned on social media whether the performance was meant to mock Clinton.

However, a rep for the Piano Guys said that to the band, the song has "nothing to do with politics." The rep added that that last year, the Piano Guys created a mash-up of "Fight Song" and "Amazing Grace" that has amassed more than 16 million views on YouTube.

While I respect the office of the President and the peaceful transfer of power, I want to make clear that at at no point did the Piano Guys — Rachel Platten (@RachelPlatten) January 21, 2017

ask for permission, nor did I or anyone on my team know of, approve or endorse their decision to play Fight Song tonight. — Rachel Platten (@RachelPlatten) January 21, 2017