Updated Art
Photo

FRIDAY PUZZLE — I don’t know about you, but I am really enjoying this influx of puzzles from some of the younger indie constructors.

Today’s puzzle by Andrew J. Ries, who publishes his own crosswords at his Aries Puzzles website, is a great example of the kind of fun one can have on a Friday, when the grid is a bit more open and those longer slots are salted with lively, fresh entries. The central stack, for example, is terrific: BUYER’S REMORSE, PARODY ACCOUNT and MUSEUM EXHIBIT. If you are not on Twitter and are not familiar with PARODY ACCOUNTs, they are accounts that are not run by the person that is represented, and are usually hilariously funny. The clue offers you @fakeChuckNorris, but one of my favorites is @ElBloombito, the parody of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s disastrous attempt to speak Spanish in public.

It’s also nice to see Lady Gaga’s “BORN THIS WAY” make its debut, along with SKATE PARKS, MUSEUM EXHIBIT and RYE WHISKY.

But even if you don’t know some of these lively entries, there is always something that you do know, and as always, that’s where you start. Maybe you’re a jazz fan, so you can fill in WES Montgomery. Perhaps you’ve read your dog-eared copy of “Little Women” so many times that you could fill in BETH MARCH in your sleep. Are you of the generation who would remember EFREM Zimbalist or his son, Junior? Or maybe you’re a baseball fan and you know that Rickey Henderson holds the record for STOLEN BASES. All of those are a very decent start in a knotty Friday puzzle, but they can all help you get the unfamiliar entries.

And just to show you how language evolves, I thought it was curious that the entry SPANX, a relatively recent women’s wear product, was listed on XWord Info as having been used only once 40 years ago. In that puzzle, of course, it was used as a letter-swap theme entry. Today, it’s a multibillion-dollar business that I would reckon a majority of women know about.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That leads me to my next point, which is about a kind of clue that comes up every now and then that trips up a lot of people, so it’s worth watching out for it. This is where “old” language is sneakily updated, like at 41A. The clue is “Updated art?” and, on the surface, the clue sounds like it refers to a work of art that has been given new life. But it’s not, and I’ll bet some of you were left scratching your head about why the answer is ARE. It’s because speakers of Old English used to use the linking verb “art,” until the word was updated to ARE.

Tricky Clues

■ 23A: MME is the abbreviation for “Madame,” and the abbreviation is hinted at by the abbreviation of the word “French” in “Fr. title.”

■ 51A: Add IVE to the word “secret,” and you have SECRETIVE.

■ 61A: Sure there is more than one god for whom a day of the week is named, and sure there is more than one god with a four-letter name, but this is Friday, so you will need to sweat this one a bit. If you solve using the Downs in this section, you will see that the god’s name is ODIN (also known as Woden), and he inspired the name Wednesday.

■ 55D: A PORE can produce a bead of sweat.

Your thoughts?