Rules
The Bachelor Fantasy League

OFFICIAL RULES

Revised as of January 18, 2017

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT OF ANY KIND WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. INTERNET ACCESS, A VALID E-MAIL AND AN ABC.COM OR ESPN.COM ACCOUNT ARE REQUIRED.

1. SPONSOR : American Broadcasting Companies, Inc., 500 S. Buena Vista St., Burbank, CA 91521 ("ABC" or "Sponsor").

2. ADMINISTRATOR : LeadDog Marketing Group, Inc. 440 Ninth Avenue, 17th Floor, New York, NY 10001 ("Administrator").

3. ELIGIBILITY : "The Bachelor Fantasy League" ("Sweepstakes") is open only to legal residents of the fifty (50) United States and the District of Columbia, who are at least eighteen (18) years of age (or the age of majority in the jurisdiction of their residence, whichever is older) at the time of entry and who are registered members of ABC.com, ESPN.com or related websites on the Disney.com registration system (each, a "Member"). Employees of Sponsor, Administrator, ESPN, The Walt Disney Company, Warner Horizon Television, Next Entertainment, persons involved in the production of The Bachelor television show (the "Show") (including cast, participants and crew) and/or each of their respective parent, subsidiary, related, affiliated and successor companies, and the immediate family and household members of all such foregoing individuals, are not eligible to enter or win prize(s). "Immediate family members" shall mean parents, step-parents, children, step-children, siblings, step-siblings, or spouses, regardless of where they live. "Household members" shall mean people who share the same residence at least three (3) months a year, whether related or not. Void where prohibited or restricted by law.

4. SWEEPSTAKES PERIODS : Sweepstakes begins on or about 1:00 p.m. Pacific Time ("PT") on 12/18/16 and ends at 4:59 p.m. PT on 3/13/17 ("Promotion Period"). The Promotion Period consists of twelve (12) separate and distinct Sweepstakes Game Periods - eleven (11) Weekly Game Periods and one (1) Grand Prize Period - as set forth in the chart below. Sponsor's computer is the official clock for the Sweepstakes.

Sweepstakes Game Periods Begin Date & Time End Date & Time Weekly Game Period #1 2:00 p.m. PT on 12/28/16 4:59 p.m. PT on 01/02/17 Weekly Game Period #2 2:00 p.m. PT on 01/04/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 01/09/17 Weekly Game Period #3 9:00 a.m. PT on 01/11/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 01/16/17 Weekly Game Period #4 9:00 a.m. PT on 01/18/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 01/23/17 Weekly Game Period #5 9:00 a.m. PT on 01/25/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 01/30/17 Weekly Game Period #6 9:00 a.m. PT on 02/01/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 02/06/17 Weekly Game Period #7 9:00 a.m. PT on 02/08/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 02/13/17 Weekly Game Period #8 9:00 a.m. PT on 02/15/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 02/20/17 Weekly Game Period #9 9:00 a.m. PT on 02/22/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 02/27/17 Weekly Game Period #10 9:00 a.m. PT on 03/01/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 03/06/17 Weekly Game Period #11 9:00 a.m. PT on 03/08/17 4:59 p.m. PT on 03/13/17 Grand Prize Game Period 1:00 p.m. PT on 12/18/16 4:59 p.m. PT on 03/13/17

5. HOW TO REGISTER : You must be a registered Member of ABC.com or ESPN.com.

Existing Member: As a Member, you may enter the Sweepstakes by logging in to www.abc.com/bfl ("Website") or The Bachelor Fantasy League game on the ESPN Fantasy application ("App") with your user name ("User Name") or email address ("Address") and password and following the Instructions (defined in Section 6) set forth below. If you login to your Member account using Facebook, you will be asked to allow Facebook's "Basic App Permissions," which is required in order to login to your Member account and participate in the Sweepstakes. You may download the App for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch (iOS 7.0 or later) as well as Android mobile devices, available for free at the App Store or Google® Play Store respectively. There is no charge to download the App, but your mobile carrier and/or internet provider may apply normal access, usage and data charges. Apple and Google are not participants in or sponsors of this Sweepstakes.

Non-Member: If you are not a Member, you may become a Member free of charge by visiting the Website or App and registering by providing the requested information on the registration form through the "sign up" or similar section on the Website or App. By creating a Member account, you acknowledge your agreement to the Terms of Use (available at http://disneytermsofuse.com). Upon becoming a Member and meeting eligibility requirements, you may enter the Sweepstakes by following the Instructions in Section 6 below.

Once you are logged in, you will be automatically sent back to the entry page on the Website. Upon logging into the Website or App, create a game entry name and click the "Continue" or similar button on the Website or App. By clicking the "Continue" or the similar button to continue with your entry, you confirm that you are 18 or older and agree to these Sweepstakes Official Rules.

During the registration and entry process, you may be asked to consent to receive promotional and marketing emails from ABC and/or other members of the Walt Disney family of companies. In addition, you will be asked whether you would like to receive periodic emails from ABC reminding you to submit your predictions in the Sweepstakes. Consenting to receive promotional, marketing or reminder emails is optional, does not have to be agreed to in order to be eligible to enter the Sweepstakes and does not improve your chances of winning. In the event you do consent to receive these emails, the use of such emails shall be subject to ABC's Privacy Policy, available at www.disneyprivacycenter.com.

6. SWEEPSTAKES ENTRY/OBTAINING POINTS : Entrants may enter the Sweepstakes via the App or Website.

After completing the registration, complete and submit your predictions for the four (4) bachelorettes that will receive hometown dates on the Show, as well as the bachelorette who may receive the Final Rose at the conclusion of the Show's 2017 season ("Season Long Predictions"). While submitting your Season Long Predictions for the four (4) hometown dates and Final Rose recipient are strongly encouraged, it is not required , and you may still receive entries into the Grand Prize drawing by playing the weekly games as set forth below.

In addition to your Season Long Predictions, you can play weekly by correctly answering multiple choice questions about The Bachelor each week during the Promotion Period. Each Weekly Game Period will consist of questions about the upcoming episode of the Show, and may also include a bonus question(s) each week. The exact number of questions and/or bonus questions per Weekly Game Period will be determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion. Please see the chart above in Section 4 for the dates and time each Weekly Game Period opens and closes during the Promotion Period.

For each correct prediction you provide, whether as part of your Season Long Predictions or during each Weekly Game Period, you will accumulate points based on the chart below.

Each point accumulated by an entrant will result in one (1) entry into the applicable Sweepstakes Game Period. Each point obtained by an entrant during a Weekly Game Period will result in an entry into both that Weekly Game Period drawing and the Grand Prize drawing at the end of the Promotion Period. However, non-winning entries from a given Weekly Game Period will not be carried over into the following Weekly Game Period.

Activity Points (per action) Correct hometown date prediction 50 points Correct Final Rose prediction 150 points Correct response to a Weekly Trivia Question 10 points Correct response to a Weekly Bonus Question 20 points

NOTE: Correct answers will be determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion.

The above chart is for summary purposes only. For complete details, check the "How to Play" instructions on the Website/App ("Game Instructions"), which are made a part of these Official Rules and incorporated herein by reference. In the event of any inconsistency between these Official Rules and the Game Instructions, these Official Rules will prevail, govern and control with the sole exception of the award of points for the completion of predictions/answers; with regard to the award of points for the completion of predictions/answers only, the Game Instructions will prevail, govern and control.

The Website/App form will indicate if your predictions have been saved. You may return and modify your predictions/answers as many times as you wish before the applicable end date/time (see chart in Section 4), except for the Season Long Predictions, which must be submitted by 1/16/17 at 4:59 p.m. PT . The version of your predictions/answers on the Website/App at the end of the applicable Weekly Game Period (and for the Season Long Predictions, at 4:59 p.m. PT on 1/16/17), per the chart above, as per Sponsor's records, will be considered your predictions for potential points/entries during that Sweepstakes Game Period.

Limit one (1) account per person/ABC.COM/ESPN.COM ID throughout the promotion Period. EACH ENTRANT MAY SUBMIT ONE (1) SET OF PREDICTIONS/ANSWERS PER SWEEPSTAKES GAME PERIOD, REGARDLESS OF THE NUMBER OF ACCOUNTS HE/SHE MAY HAVE. Multiple entries in excess of this limitation or mass entry attempts will result in disqualification of all entries by such person. Entries must be manually key-stroked; use of automated entry devices or programs is prohibited.

Sponsor will not be responsible for late, lost, incomplete, garbled or misdirected entries. All predictions/answers must be received by 4:59 p.m. PT on the day when each applicable Sweepstakes Game Period(s) end(s), except for the Season Long Predictions, which must be submitted by 4:59 p.m. PT on 1/16/17. All entries become the property of Sponsor and will not be acknowledged or returned. By entering this Sweepstakes, participants agree to these Official Rules and the decisions of the judges and Sponsor, which are binding and final in all matters relating to this Sweepstakes.

ABOUT POINTS: Sponsor or its designees shall determine in their sole discretion whether an entrant submitted one or more correct Season Long Predictions, as well whether an entrant correctly answered the Weekly Trivia/Bonus questions (as applicable) so as to receive points (and, if so, the number of points to be awarded based on number of correct predictions/answers); such decisions are final and binding in all respects and not subject to appeal. Points are usable only by Sponsor and Administrator for internal purposes of conducting the random drawings as set forth in these Official Rules and participants have no ownership or property rights in points. Without limiting the foregoing, any attempt by a participant to sell, purchase, and trade or exchange points is void. Such actions (as well as any other action which seeks to defraud Sponsor or Administrator in conjunction with the acquisition or use of points) will result in points not being honored and disqualification from the Promotion.

7. LEADERBOARD/GROUPS: The Leaderboard and groups are for entertainment purposes only. Joining a group(s) (private or public) is optional; you may join as many groups as you'd like to compare your points/predictions with other Members. If you choose to join a group(s), once your picks are locked, they will be applied across all your groups. For the avoidance of doubt, joining a group(s) has no effect on your chance of winning a prize. Per Section 8 below, Winner(s) are selected by random drawings. The Leaderboard posted on the Website/App is intended to reflect the point values of players (for a given week and/or cumulatively over the course of the Promotion Period). The Leaderboard may take up to twelve (12) hours to accurately reflect all activities completed. Sponsor/Administrator will endeavor to maintain and accurately reflect the number of points that participants have earned (both overall and for specific Weekly Game Periods). However, Sponsor and its agencies (including Administrator) shall not be responsible for technical errors of any kind which may cause inaccurate or incomplete information to be reflected at any given time. Sponsor/Administrator may update the Leaderboard (including a given participant's point total) at time(s) of their sole choosing and Sponsor/Administrator may correct erroneous listings on the Leaderboard (including a given participant's point total) at any time in their sole discretion without liability or notice of any kind. Notwithstanding listings on the Leaderboard, a person will not be the potential Grand Prize winner unless and until he/she is notified personally by Sponsor or Administrator to such effect (see Section 8 below). Participants should maintain their own records of their participation in the Promotion.

8. WINNER SELECTION/VALIDATIONS/NOTIFICATION AND ODDS: Potential winner for each Sweepstakes Game Period will be chosen in a random drawing, on or about three (3) business days following the conclusion of the applicable Sweepstakes Game Period (per the chart in Section 4 above). Administrator will randomly draw one (1) potential winner from among all eligible entries received for each Sweepstakes Game Period.

During the Promotion Period, each point accumulated by an entrant will result in one (1) entry into the applicable Sweepstakes Game Period. Each point obtained by an entrant during a Weekly Game Period will result in an entry into both that Weekly Game Period drawing and the Grand Prize drawing at the end of the Promotion Period. For the avoidance of doubt, non-winning entries from a given Weekly Game Period will not be carried over into the following Weekly Game Period. Sponsor and/or Administrator will determine, in its/their sole discretion, which entries are deemed eligible entries, and their decisions and the results of the drawings will be final in all respects.

Tabulation of entrants' correct predictions to be conducted by ESPN. Random drawing for the Grand and Weekly Prize(s) to be conducted by Administrator, the Sweepstakes' official judging organization, whose decisions are final and binding on all aspects of the Sweepstakes.

Potential winners will be notified by email on or about three (3) business days following the conclusion of the applicable Sweepstakes Game Period. With regard to any prize, failure to respond via email to the initial verification e-mail within three (3) business days after notification, or return of e-mail notification as undeliverable after three (3) attempts may result in forfeiture of winner status and any prize, at Sponsor's sole discretion. Grand Prize winner and Weekly Game Period Prize winner may be required to sign and return, within five (5) business days of transmission, an Affidavit of Eligibility, Release and Indemnification, and where allowed by law, a Publicity Release (as applicable) (collectively, "Winner Documents"). Failure to return the Winner Documents within the specified time period may result in disqualification, with an alternate winner being selected from a random drawing of all such remaining eligible entrants. All potential winners are subject to verification of eligibility before a prize is awarded and Weekly Game Period Prize winners will need to provide their complete mailing address (including city, state and zip code), phone number and verified date of birth to claim their prize. In the event of any dispute concerning the identity of an online entrant, the entry will be deemed submitted by the natural person who is the authorized holder of the transmitting e-mail account. "Authorized account holder" is defined as the natural person who is assigned to an e-mail address by an Internet access provider, online service provider, or other organization (e.g., business, educational institution, etc.) that is responsible for assigning e-mail addresses for the domain associated with the submitted e-mail address. If for any reason, a prize is not claimed or a winner is disqualified, the corresponding prize will be awarded to an alternate winner (time permitting).

Odds of winning a prize depend on the total amount of entries/points received by entrant as compared to other eligible entrants in the applicable Sweepstakes Game Period

9. PRIZES AND APPROIMATE RETAIL VALUES ("ARV"):

One (1) Grand Prize and Eleven (11) Weekly Game Prizes (one [1] Weekly Game Prize per Weekly Game Period) are available.

One (1) Grand Prize: Grand Prize winner will receive a 3-day/2-night trip for two (2) to Los Angeles, CA and two (2) tickets to the taping of The Bachelorette Season 13 "After the Final Rose" show ("ATFR"), which is currently scheduled to take place in August 2017 (exact dates TBD) in or around Los Angeles, California. Exact date and location of ATFR taping are subject to change. There is no retail value associated with the ATFR taping portion of the Grand Prize and exact seat location is at Sponsor's sole choosing.

The Grand Prize also includes: two (2) nights' hotel accommodation (one room, double occupancy) at a hotel in the Los Angeles area hotel to be determined by Sponsor; roundtrip ground transportation between the hotel and the taping; round-trip, coach-class air transportation for the winner and one (1) guest from an airport near winner's residence (as selected by Sponsor in its sole discretion) to Los Angeles, CA; and two (2) 1-Day Disneyland® Resort tickets, valid for admission to either Disneyland® Park or Disney California Adventure® Park.

The total ARV of the Grand Prize is $3,238.00.

If Grand Prize winner is unable to travel to Los Angeles on the designated dates corresponding to the ATFR taping (with projected travel dates being during the month of August 2017) for any reason, Grand Prize will be forfeited in its entirety and Grand Prize will be awarded to an alternate winner as per Section 7 above, provided sufficient time remains prior to ATFR taping. In the event the Grand Prize Winner is able to participate in the Grand Prize trip during the dates designated by Sponsor but ATFR taping does not or cannot take place as scheduled or at all, for reasons including but not limited to cancellations, postponement, location changes, security considerations, an event of force majeure, or for any other reason, then Sponsor reserves the right to award the remainder of the prize in full satisfaction of Sponsor's obligations hereunder and with no further obligation to the winner.

Grand Prize winner's guest will be required to execute and return a liability/publicity release prior to ticketing. The winner's guest must be at least eighteen (18) years of age (or the age of majority in the jurisdiction of their residence, whichever is older). Grand Prize winner and/or his/her guest must follow all instructions of Sponsor and its designees relative to the Grand Prize trip. Such instructions may include but are not limited to requirements regarding acceptable attire for winner and guest. Should the Grand Prize winner and/or his/her guest fail to adhere to any such instructions or engage in unruly, illegal, threatening, or otherwise inappropriate behavior (as determined by Sponsor in their sole discretion), Sponsor and its designees reserve the right, without further notice or warning, to terminate the trip or other applicable experience early, in whole or in part, and send Grand Prize winner and/or winner's guest home and/or take other actions as Sponsor deems appropriate in its sole discretion without any liability or other obligation to winner or guest. Failure to do so may result in forfeiture of the live taping portion of the Grand Prize. ATFR may also have Grand Prize winner and his or her guest sign a separate liability and publicity release, and will be subject to ATFR's security procedures and any other applicable policies. ATFR reserves the right to suspend or cancel the participation of any winner or guest due to non-compliance with any security procedure or inappropriate behavior or misconduct.

Winner is solely responsible for all other expenses not specified herein, including but not limited to meals; roundtrip ground transportation between the hotel and the Disneyland® Resort; travel insurance; room service; laundry service; spa treatments; local and long distance telephone calls; merchandise and souvenirs; incidental expenses; tips and gratuities; activities and any other ground transportation not expressly included in the prize description above, luggage fees; additional taxes which are not expressly included in the prize trip and all other costs and expenses not otherwise mentioned herein. Airline tickets are non-refundable/non-transferable and are not valid for upgrades and/or frequent flyer miles. Grand Prize winner and guest are solely responsible for any travel documentation and related requirements and for determining applicable procedures and restrictions. The Grand Prize winner may be required to present a valid photo ID and/or credit card at the airport and at the hotel at the time of check-in. Winner and guest must provide own transportation to and from departure airport. If winner's residence is within 150 miles of Los Angeles, CA, as determined by Administrator in its sole discretion, ground transportation will be provided in lieu of air travel and no substitute prize or compensation will be awarded. The Bachelorette tickets are non-transferable, non-assignable, may not be used for any trade or promotional purposes, and have no retail value. Notwithstanding any other term or condition contained herein, Sponsor makes no guarantee that The Bachelorette will not for any reason be cancelled or postponed, and Sponsor shall have no liability related thereto, financial or otherwise.

If winner travels alone, prizes will be awarded in increments only for actual number of travelers; i.e., the winner only. But, the winner will not receive any substitute prize or compensation in conjunction therewith.

Winner is not entitled to exchange, substitute or transfer prize or portions thereof except with Sponsor's permission or where required by law. Winner and guest must travel together on same itinerary. Winners and guest assume the risk of any inherent or unforeseen dangers associated with travel. All air transportation tickets are subject to the vagaries of flight variation, work stoppages and schedule or route changes. Sponsor is not liable for any expenses or missed Prize elements resulting from flight cancellation/delay. ARV may vary depending upon points of departure and destination and flare fluctuations. Prize elements may be subject to additional restrictions. Theme park attractions and entertainment are seasonal and subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions and block-out dates may apply. If for any reason announced prize (or prize component) becomes unavailable, Sponsor may award a substitute prize/prize component of equal or greater value. Prizes are not redeemable for cash. All federal, state and local taxes, are the sole responsibility of the Grand Prize winner, who will receive an IRS Form 1099 reflecting the final actual value of his/her prize.

Eleven (11) Weekly Game Period Prizes (one [1] Weekly Game Period Prize per Weekly Game Period): Each Weekly Game Prize winner will receive one (1) dozen roses (to be awarded in the form of a gift card; gift card retailer to be chosen in Sponsor's sole discretion). Winner is subject to verification of eligibility and must provide a valid street address in the (50) United States or the District of Columbia for shipment of Weekly Game Period Prize. There is a limit of one (1) Weekly Game Period Prize per person/family/household/address.

The ARV of each Weekly Game Period Prize is $100.00.

The ARV of all Weekly Prizes is $1,100.00.

Total ARV of All Prizes: $4,338.00.

By accepting a prize, each winner (and travel guest, if applicable) grants Sponsor and its designees permission to use their name, voice, likeness, photograph, prize information, biographical data and city and state of residence on a winners' list (if applicable) and for programming, publicity and promotional purposes, worldwide in all forms of media now known or hereafter developed, in perpetuity, without further compensation unless prohibited by law. Sponsor and its designees are not obligated to use any of the above mentioned information or materials, but may do so and may edit such information or materials, at Sponsor's sole discretion, without further obligation or compensation.

Prize winners are not entitled to exchange or transfer the prize (in whole or in part) or to obtain cash or other substitutes, except Sponsor reserves the right to substitute prize or portions thereof of equal or greater value if the prize listed or any portion thereof is unavailable for any reason.

10. GENERAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY: Sponsor reserves the right in its sole discretion to disqualify any individual it finds to be tampering with the entry process or the operation of the Sweepstakes or to be acting in violation of these Official Rules. Any attempt by any person to deliberately undermine the legitimate operation of the Sweepstakes may be a violation of criminal and civil law, and, should such an attempt be made, Sponsor reserves the right to seek damages from any such person to the fullest extent permitted by law. Sponsor's failure to enforce any term of these Official Rules shall not constitute a waiver of that provision. Sponsor and its agencies are not responsible for failed, partial or garbled computer transmissions, or for technical failures of any kind, including but not limited to electronic malfunction or damage of any network, hardware or software. If for any reason the Sweepstakes (in whole or in part) is not capable of running as planned, including postponement of The Bachelor, infection by computer virus, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, human error, fire, flood, storm or other natural cataclysm, riot, strike, civil commotion, governmental regulation or any other causes beyond Sponsor's control that corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity or proper conduct of the Sweepstakes, Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate, modify or suspend the Sweepstakes. Without limiting the foregoing, if The Bachelor broadcast(s) is interrupted or postponed from its original broadcast date or time due to preemption, natural cataclysm, state of emergency, or any other force majeure event (such that the broadcast cannot be shown in its entirety as originally intended by Sponsor), Sponsor reserves the right to modify or suspend the timing, entry deadline and prize award schedule of the Sweepstakes such that they will correspond to the scheduled new broadcast (or re-broadcast, if applicable) date of The Bachelor (and, in such event, notice will be posted on the Website/App). Sponsor also reserves the right to award prizes listed in these Official Rules via other means determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion that are to be fair, appropriate and consistent with the spirit of these Official Rules. Notice of such action by Sponsor will be posted on the Website/App.

Entrants further agree not to knowingly damage or cause interruption of the Sweepstakes and/or prevent others from participating in the Sweepstakes. CAUTION: ANY ATTEMPT TO DAMAGE ANY ONLINE SERVICE OR WEBSITE OR UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THE SWEEPSTAKES VIOLATES CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LAWS. IF SUCH AN ATTEMPT IS MADE, SPONSOR MAY DISQUALIFY ANY ENTRANT MAKING SUCH ATTEMPT AND SEEK DAMAGES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT OF THE LAW.

By participating in this Sweepstakes, each entrant agrees: (a) to be bound by and abide by these Official Rules and the decisions of Sponsor, and Administrator, which shall be final and binding in all respects; (b) to furnish Sponsor with executed copies of any documents required by Sponsor in order to be confirmed as a prize winner, including without limitation, any of the Winner Documents; and (c) to release and discharge and hold harmless Sponsor, Administrator, ESPN, The Walt Disney Company, Warner Horizon Television, Next Entertainment, persons involved in the production of The Bachelor television show (including cast, participants and crew), each of their respective parent, subsidiary, affiliated, related and successor companies, advertising and promotion agencies, and each of the foregoing entities' respective officers, directors, agents, shareholders, representatives and employees, as well as each of their respective successors, representatives and assigns, Facebook, Inc., (collectively, the "Released Parties") from and against any and all injuries, liability, losses, claims, expenses and damages of any kind to persons, including death, or property resulting, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from entrant's, Grand Prize winner's, and/or guests' and/or Weekly Game Period Prize winner's participation in the Sweepstakes or any Sweepstakes-related activity (including any travel related thereto); the acceptance, possession, use or misuse of prize (or portion thereof) (including any travel or activity related thereto); the substitution of the prize or any portion thereof in accordance with the Official Rules; the Released Parties' use of any of the rights granted in the Official Rules or in any other document executed by entrant in connection with this Sweepstakes; and/or any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by entrants, errors by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the Sweepstakes, technical failures of any kind, unauthorized human intervention in any part of the entry process or the Sweepstakes and/or technical or human error which may occur in the administration of the Sweepstakes or the processing of Entries (collectively, the "Claims"); and (d) to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Released Parties from and against any and all injuries, liability, losses, claims, expenses and damages of any kind that may arise from or in conjunction with the Claims.

11. DISPUTES; ARBITRATION/CHOICE OF LAW: Except where prohibited, entrants agree that: (a) any and all disputes, claims, and causes of action arising out of or connected with this Sweepstakes, or the awarding of prizes/determination of prize winners, shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action, and exclusively by arbitration pursuant to the Rules of JAMS, then effective (notwithstanding the foregoing, entrant shall not be precluded from seeking relief in small claims court for disputes/claims within the scope of the jurisdiction of small claims court and any remedies available to entrant under applicable federal, state or local law remain available to entrant and are not waived pursuant to this section); (b) any and all claims, judgments and awards shall be limited to actual out-of-pocket costs incurred, including costs associated with entering this Sweepstakes but in no event attorneys' fees; and (c) under no circumstances will entrant be permitted to obtain awards for and entrant hereby waives all rights to claim punitive, incidental and consequential damages and any other damages, other than for actual out-of-pocket expenses, and any and all rights to have damages multiplied or otherwise increased and any and all rights to injunctive relief. The arbitrator hearing such dispute/claim/cause of action shall be neutral and the entrant will have a reasonable opportunity to participate in the selection of the arbitrator. Such arbitration will take place at a location near the entrant's residence and the entrant has the right to an in-person hearing in the arbitration proceeding, if desired. The arbitration will allow for the discovery and/or exchange of non-privileged information between entrant and Sponsor. Should an entrant initiate arbitration pursuant to this section, the entrant shall be responsible for JAMS's fees to do so (approximately, $250), with all other costs of such arbitration being borne solely by Sponsor. If entrant is a California resident and Sponsor is the prevailing party in such arbitration, such entrant will not be responsible for Sponsor's costs and fees in conjunction with the arbitration proceeding; BUT, IN ALL OTHER CASES, ENTRANT WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SUCH COSTS/FEES IF REQUIRED BY THE ARBITRATOR'S RULING. For the avoidance of doubt, the requirement to arbitrate disputes pursuant to this section is reciprocal and binding both upon entrants and Sponsor. All issues and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of entrant and/or Released Parties in connection with the Sweepstakes, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard for conflicts of law doctrine of New York or any other jurisdiction, and all proceedings shall take place in the City of New York, County of New York.

12. WINNERS' LIST: For the names of the winners, mail a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: The Bachelor Fantasy League Winners, c/o LeadDog Marketing Group, 440 Ninth Ave., 17th Floor, New York, NY 10001, for receipt no later than 4/30/17.

This Sweepstakes is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with, Facebook. You understand that you are providing your information to ABC and not to Facebook.