New England Patriots’ Owner, Still Sore at N.F.L., Has Payback in Sight
“Sometimes, the league really messes up, and I think they really messed this up badly,” he said in a wide-ranging discussion in his Gillette Stadium office here. “But we’ve all agreed to subjugate our right to disrupt everything” — the Patriots declined to fight the league over financial penalties it levied on the team — “I mean, we can, but we’re a partnership. There’s jealousy, there’s envy, there’s stupidity. Sometimes, life is unfair, and you have to suck it up and move on and not use it as an excuse.”

Photo

Let bygones be bygones? Not quite. Goodell has not been seen at a Patriots home game in two years, and on Sunday, rather than face the wrath of Patriots fans, he will, for the second consecutive week, travel to Atlanta for the N.F.C. Championship game instead.

This relationship may have evolved into one of the biggest tests of the diplomatic skills — in football and in his larger world of finance and philanthropy — that Kraft prides himself on.

Never mind that he owns one of the most polarizing teams, one that, while certainly beloved in New England, has failed to attract the kind of passionate national following of the Cowboys or the Packers.

Some of the distaste, of course, reflects a jealousy created by their four Super Bowl titles — and six appearances in the title game — over the last 15 years.

But there is also the coach, Bill Belichick, who although most likely headed to the Hall of Fame, is hard to love with his taciturn and grumpy manner in public. Also not helping are a series of scandals, including New England’s spying on the New York Jets in 2007, and another involving a former player, Aaron Hernandez, who was convicted of committing a murder that occurred while he was a member of the team.

And Brady and those footballs.

So the internet likes to discuss things like “15 Reasons Why People Hate the New England Patriots.”

Photo

Kraft, a native of Brookline, Mass., who bought the Patriots 23 years ago for a then-record $172 million, chalks up such animosity to the team’s success. He has an apartment in Manhattan, and in the years after he bought the team, he would get razzed by people on the street.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“They used to be aggressive and nasty, and now they’re more respectful because I think we’ve been able to do pretty well and sustained it,” Kraft said.

Still, the friction cuts against the image of affability and reason that Kraft, 75, likes to project.

When a New York Times reporter stepped into his office, the first thing Kraft did was hand him two small cartons of eggs from his family farm, assuring him they would be the best he had ever eaten. On his desk facing visitors was a small plaque with the greeting “Shalom Y’all!”

The 30 minutes allotted for the interview went on way longer, though some of it was given to asides and stem-winding tangents.

Kraft, whose billions come primarily from a packaging and paper empire and an assortment of other investments, sidestepped questions about whether winning a Super Bowl would have any extra meaning this year.

Until Deflategate, he and Goodell publicly got along well, and Kraft takes pride in his facility for building relationships with a wide range of sports figures, celebrities, politicians and business leaders. One week, Secretary of State John Kerry might join him in his suite, and the next it’s media titans like Rupert Murdoch and Leslie Moonves.

Photo

Among N.F.L. owners, whose politics tilt Republican, Kraft is among the most loyal donors to Democratic candidates. Yet he, as well as Brady and Belichick, considers President-elect Donald J. Trump a good friend, a tricky relationship in heavily Democratic Massachusetts, which voted for Hillary Clinton by a wide margin.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kraft said they met 20 years ago when Trump invited him to play golf at his club in West Palm Beach, Fla.

“Loyalty is important to me, and he has been a wonderful friend,” Kraft said. “I think one of the great problems in the country today is the working poor, the middle class, that there hasn’t been growth in income on an equal basis, and I really think the policies he’s going to bring to bear are going to be great for the economic side of America.”

It is hard to tell if his association with Trump is costing the team fans, but then, as a team owner and businessman, he is used to being a target.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

He has had legal fights with business partners, including those with a stake in the land where Gillette Stadium now stands.

Patriots fans, too, lashed out at Kraft for not doing more to fight the N.F.L. during Deflategate.

Yet he is influential enough in the league that owners and officials prefer to keep their criticisms of him to private conversations.

When Kraft and other team owners clash over league issues, it is usually behind closed doors.

“We do have dissent and do have things I think you couldn’t help but have,” said the Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones, who rivals Kraft for influence in the league. “I think Bob has exhibited disagreement, but he’s also very capable of making and influencing change. I’m someone, if he has ideas, I would certainly be a good listener.”