Watch Ballet Dancers Take Over a Subway Station
Justin Peck, the much-laureled 29-year-old New York City Ballet choreographer, is as energetic as his jetés suggest, and he likes to be involved at every possible level of a new commission. This season, he’s choreographed a new ballet, “The Times Are Racing,” which opens at Lincoln Center next week; he dances in it; and he’s directed a video teaser, too, starring himself and the NYCB principal dancer Robbie Fairchild and shot in a New York City subway station.

“We spent a long time trying to find the right location for the film,” Peck explains. “To me, it was very important to capture the dance in one single take — in the same vein as how those classic Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly dance numbers were filmed. We ended up shooting the sequence twelve times, and finally got it on the last take of the day.”

In the film, Peck and Fairchild wear outfits that wouldn’t look out of place on real commuters, including diamond-patterned sweatshirts by Opening Ceremony. The brand’s co-founder, Humberto Leon, separately designed the costumes for the ballet itself; this marks their second collaboration. “I wanted the ballet to have a very human, urban look to it. The choreography draws from all sorts of dance styles and influences — a mix of ballet, tap, street, even breakdance — so it’s important that the visual look of the piece can exist freely and confidently amongst those various styles,” Peck says. (To wit, it will be performed in sneakers.)

To further stretch ballet boundaries, “The Times are Racing” is scored by the last four tracks of “America,” a 2012 album by the playful, experimental electronic musician Dan Deacon. Peck is famous for challenging himself, but “America” represents an instance in which even he had to spend time drumming up some nerve. “I’ve been listening to it ever since it came out. It wasn’t until this year that I felt that I’ve built up enough courage to tackle it,” he says. “It’s a challenging and extraordinary piece of music.”