Celebrities Show Support for Women's Marches Around the World
The 45th president takes the oath of office, immediately signs executive order.

Storm chaser Aaron Rigsby discusses emergency crews' efforts to help people during the storm.

ABC News' Charli James talks to protesters on the bus ride to the Women's March in Washington D.C. from Silver Spring, Maryland.

On the Bus to the Women's March in D.C. from Silver Spring, MD

ABC News' Rachel Scott talks to protesters arriving at the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

Arriving at the Women's March on Washington, DC

ABC News' Rachel Scott talks to protesters of all generations at the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

At the Women's March in DC Solidarity Spans Generation

ABC News' Rachel Scott talks to a teacher about why he is participating in the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

Men March in Solidarity at Women's March on Washington, DC

ABC News' Maggie Rulli talks to demonstrators as the Women's March on Washington, D.C. gets underway.

ABC News' Charli James talks to demonstrators as they arrive at the Women's March on Washington, D.C.

ABC News' Maggie Rulli talks to protesters about why they are participating in the Women's March on Washington.

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

ABC News' Maggie Rulli is at "The Outrage," a pop-up shop selling Women's March merchandise and donating a portion of proceeds to women's charities.

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

Why Protesters Are Participating in the Women's March on Washington

Celebrities are joining the hundreds of thousands of demonstrators at Women's Marches around the globe today.

For those who couldn't physically attend, many have shared their sentiments of solidarity on social media.

Thank you to everyone at today's #WomensMarch for showing Trump what a crowd looks like.

Peace. — Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) January 21, 2017 "I do not weep at the world. I am too busy sharpening my oyster knife." Zora Neale Hurston #WomensMarch pic.twitter.com/wQuSIw2vIn — Ava DuVernay (@ava) January 21, 2017 March strong today and be safe!! ???????????????????? #WomensMarch — Andy Cohen (@Andy) January 21, 2017 Streets are packed! Metro subway jammed!!! Amazing. #WomensMarch View gallery Celebrities Show Support for Women's Marches Around the World (ABC News) January 21, 2017 "Good Morning Womens."

-Sebastian, into his tape recorder#WomensMarch pic.twitter.com/IEOvHwlknl — Lin-Manuel Miranda (@Lin_Manuel) January 21, 2017 I'm with them. #womensmarch — Tony Bennett (@itstonybennett) January 21, 2017 Couldn't be more proud....I am here, we are here!!! #WomensMarch pic.twitter.com/HibJJlcTTC — Zendaya (@Zendaya) January 21, 2017 The Women's March on Washington, along with sister marches on six different continents, are focused on promoting equal rights for women and minorities.

On way 2D.C. March??There r Marches ALL OVER THE??

After March we wi’ll Join Organizations??WE WONT SIT &??NOTHING??#WhyIMarch #WomensMarch — Cher (@cher) January 21, 2017 The demonstrations, organized in part to protest the agenda of President Donald Trump, are being held just one day after he was sworn into office.

From Tony Bennett to Katy Perry, here are the celebs contributing to the cause: