New Yorkers Rediscover Activism in the Trump Presidency Era
Right now in New York City, the nation’s capital of bubbledom, it is possible to join in an act of opposition to the New World Order nearly every day. On Sunday, writers marched from the New York Public Library in support of free speech; other actions like it took place around the country. At roughly the same time, in a move coordinated by the anti-Trump group Rise & Resist, 15 people sat down to brunch at the Jean-Georges and Nougatine restaurants, both in the Trump International Hotel at Columbus Circle. They hadn’t come for frittatas; they had made reservations to disrupt brunch. At a certain point they stood up and began coughing loudly in unison, then chanting for the right to health care. Some in the group had chronic illnesses, including H.I.V., and feared the loss of insurance that has been provided under the Affordable Care Act.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Outside the hotel, hundreds of protesters gathered in the name of preserving the A.C.A. A mother and two daughters, all of them in health care practice and with little history of activism among them, had come out because they were moved by the plight of their patients who feared losing coverage. Some parents came with small children, despite the cold and wind. Some carried signs that read “Cats and Kids Against Capitalism.” Some expressed a sense of conflict over wanting to go after so many issues, subject to so much possible peril, all at once. “What do you do when you care about seven things?” Lisa Guido, one of the marchers asked. “I care about clean water. As a middle-aged woman I’m not going to need an abortion, but I do care.”

Is there a path to viewing the Trump victory as a kind of cosmic accident for which liberals in 20 years will be profoundly grateful? In the days just following the election, as many reports noted, various nonprofit groups saw a surge in support. JustLeadership U.S.A., an organization dedicated to reducing mass incarceration, was one of them. “People are realizing that you have to do more than tweet,” Glenn E. Martin, the president and founder, told me. “It’s brought a great clarity of opposition and that clarity hasn’t existed for the last eight years.”’

Photo

Generally speaking, progressive activists believe that the complacency and will to compromise that has characterized a dominant faction of the left has now been shaken to a point where few can easily regard the course as a tenable one. Extremism incentivizes. And unifies. “The hottest fire makes the strongest steel — and so far, that is what is happening,” Charles Khan, a leader in a six-year-old activist group based in New York called Strong Economy for All, said.

Scholars have long maintained that change of the kind movements generate is largely driven by the “biologically available,” which is to say by the young and unencumbered or the old and idle. What is striking about the universe of Trump resistance, at least in New York, is how visibly active the biologically unavailable actually are. At one meeting of several hundred people in a synagogue in Brooklyn on Monday, I met a woman named Lisa Raymond-Tolan, a mother and occupational therapist who has recently made activism a second job. “Prior to Nov. 8,” she told me, “I didn’t activate one day in my life.”

It is common to hear this current breed of revolutionary talk about the wish to create a Tea Party of the left. This has been prompted in part by the recent online publication of the Indivisible Guide, a playbook for grass-roots advocacy by a group of former congressional aides, who have distilled the successful tactics deployed by the Tea Party in blocking so much of the Obama administration’s agenda and offered them up to Trump antagonists.

Photo

The Tea Party coalesced in the aftermath of the 2008 elections amid widespread distress on the political right. Discussion groups formed with a hyperlocal focus, a practice that the new guidebook preaches to progressives. It proposes a strategy that is completely defensive (since trying to execute an alternative policy agenda would be impossible), allowing for virtually no conciliation with the other side and the near constant barraging of one’s congressional representatives with requests and grievances in the regular, and very low-tech, form of letters and phone calls. What is the value of this? “Congressional offices have limited time and limited people,” the guidebook explains. “A day they spend worrying about you is a day they’re not ending Medicare, privatizing public schools or preparing a Muslim registry.”

When I met Ms. Raymond-Tolan she was overseeing a group that met weekly to pursue this vein of dissent, and persuade friends and relatives in other states — Maine, New Jersey, Wisconsin — to take the same measures with their own representatives. No staff member for a member of Congress representing an exurb in Wisconsin wants to hear from an orthodontist in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, about what’s wrong with Rex Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s pick for secretary of state. (Other groups meeting in the same synagogue that evening as part of the Get Organized BK movement, and spilling out of the rooms in which they had been assigned, were targeting women’s health initiatives, or working to develop projects to help schools expand student activism, or talking about how to hold the news media accountable for its coverage of the Trump presidency.) Ms. Raymond-Tolan’s group had already delivered over 2,500 letters to the offices of Senators Kirsten E. Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer, Democrats of New York, asking that they obstruct Mr. Trump’s cabinet appointments.

Outside Mr. Schumer’s prewar building on Prospect Park West in Brooklyn, there have been two actions this month in which hundreds of ordinary people convened, letting the senator, who is the minority leader, know that they are keeping watch, and, by implication, that they will work to install some other Democrat in his place if he concedes, or gets lazy.