Otis to Take UK Skylines to New Heights
Introduces new products, service initiatives – including connected Gen2® Life elevator – confirming commitment to UK

LONDON, Oct. 27, 2016 — With the dramatic change to London’s skyline currently underway, the city and the rest of the UK will be set with modern high-rise buildings. Otis, whose founder invented the modern elevator, is introducing new elevator products and services to meet that demand, including the connected Gen2® Life elevator and the expanded Otis SkyRise® product family for high-rise buildings. Otis, which operates in the UK as Otis Limited, is the world’s leading manufacturer and maintainer of people-moving products, including elevators, escalators and moving walkways, and is a unit of United Technologies Corp. (NYSE: UTX).

“It’s predicted that 60 percent of the world will be living in cities by 2030, and Otis is leading the way with new products and services that combine connectivity with the modern designs as well as the mechanical and functional excellence that has been critical to our success for more than 160 years,” said Hemant Jolly, managing director of Otis, UK and Ireland. “These investments show that Otis is a multinational company that sees tremendous opportunity in the UK, and we look forward to showing people here how our new products and services can bring passengers — and the buildings they live and work in — to the next level.”

High-end products for tomorrow’s smart buildings

Through new interior designs and smart, connected functionality, the Gen2 Life, part of Otis’ new Gen2 line, serves as a fashionable and functional room in the core of the building. It puts a high-performing, energy-efficient elevator at a tenant’s beck and call, creating an upscale experience that keeps passengers productive and on the move. The Gen2 Life is now available across the UK.

The Gen2 elevator redefined the elevator industry with breakthrough technology that replaced conventional ropes with flat belts, leading to a more comfortable ride, greater reliability, more efficient operation and increased energy efficiency compared to conventional roped elevators. Since its introduction, the Gen2 elevator has become one of the company’s best-selling elevators in Otis’ 163-year history with more than half-million units sold.

Now, the Gen2 Life builds on that legacy, adding more than 400,000 elevator design combinations with new interior design concepts, providing continuity with the architecture and design of a building.

The Gen2 Life also features integration of multimedia and connected services:

A full HD eView™ screen positioned in the control panel provides real-time information to passengers, such as news, weather and traffic.

Otis’ eCall™ mobile application that allows residents to call the elevator from a distance with their smartphone.

The OneCall™ dashboard on the elevator landing provides intuitive floor selection from outside the elevator.

High-rise solutions for the UK’s tallest buildings

Otis also recently expanded its SkyRise product family, designed for the world’s tallest buildings. The self-climbing SkyBuild elevator joins the SkyRise family as a time-saving option. Installed at the beginning of a building’s construction, the SkyBuild elevator allows movement of crews and tools quickly and safely — without an external lift or exposure to weather. Its unique hydraulic piston system enables it to quickly climb one floor at a time as the building rises. Once construction is complete, the SkyBuild elevator quickly transitions for immediate service as a SkyRise elevator.

SkyRise elevators can travel at speeds up to 12.2 meters per second and have a carrying capacity of 900 to 5,000 kilograms. The noise-reducing cabin and aerodynamic cover, along with modern touch-screen CompassPlus™ destination dispatching system, which organizes passengers by their destinations, provide a quieter, smoother and faster experience than other elevators with traditional technology.

Service to meet the demands of the future

Otis mechanics in the UK will also be among the first to pilot new technology to improve elevator and escalator repair and maintenance. As part of Otis’ service digitalisation strategy, the mechanics will receive new smartphones with apps to provide more efficient service and enhanced customer communication. The global investment will reach Otis’ more than 31,000 service mechanics, starting in key locations, including the UK.

“The UK was picked as one of several pilots for this initiative because of its global importance in the building sector,” Jolly said. “Here, we like to say we’re ‘leading the fleet’ to a future of more connected elevators and ever-smarter buildings.”