Obama: ‘It’s been the honor of my life to serve you’
As President Obama prepared to pass the baton to President-elect Donald Trump, he bid a temporary farewell to the American people and outlined his plans for his future role in our democracy — private citizen.

Obama tweeted Friday morning, mere hours before Trump’s inauguration, that it has been the honor of his life to serve the American people, who he said made him a better person. He said he will not stop serving the United States, but now he will do so as a private citizen rather than as commander in chief.

I won't stop; I'll be right there with you as a citizen, inspired by your voices of truth and justice, good humor, and love. — President Obama (@POTUS) January 20, 2017





I'm still asking you to believe – not in my ability to bring about change, but in yours. I believe in change because I believe in you. — President Obama (@POTUS) January 20, 2017





He also directed followers to his new website for the Obama Foundation, Obama.org, where he compelled others to continue their dialogue with him about what matters most to the nation. Obama encouraged people to hold fast to their belief in themselves to create change.

Obama and first lady Michelle Obama filmed a video discussing their future presidential center. It will be based in Chicago’s Southside but also have projects throughout the city, country, and world, according to Obama.

“More than a library or museum. It will be a living, working center for citizenship. That’s why we want to hear from you,” Obama said. “Tell us what you want this project to be.”

The new website lays out Obama’s biography and accomplishments in the White House, as well as his plans for the future:

“The Obama Foundation will focus on developing the next generation of citizens — and what it means to be a good citizen in the 21st century. It will draw strength from the rich diversity and vitality of Chicago, where the President and First Lady met and raised their daughters, and it will have nonprofit programs across the city, the United States, and the world. Whether you are looking for a role in your community or have been active on the field of democracy for years, we look forward to working with you and for you. Together, we will build programs to inspire us all to be better citizens and to help young leaders develop their ideas. This will be a design year for us, and we hope you’ll join in.”

Related video:

Read more from Yahoo News:

_____

Related slideshows:

Slideshow: Anti-Trump inauguration protests break out in U.S. >>>

Slideshow: Protests worldwide against the inauguration of Donald Trump >>>

Slideshow: Obama’s Washington >>>

Slideshow: Donald Trump’s Inauguration Day >>>

Slideshow: 66 hands on 66 Bibles >>>