Proxima B could be Earth 2.0
Now scientists have said surface water will likely have evaporated by radiation

At first it was hailed as the best chance we have of finding alien life

The planet, discovered in August last year, has two suns like Tatooine

Proxima b is a planet orbiting in the habitable zone of our nearest star

A rocky planet that may harbour life was discovered just four light years from Earth in August last year.

The planet, called Proxima b, was also dubbed 'a second Earth' because is the right distance from its star to host liquid water, which means it has the potential for alien life.

But now scientists have said the planet is more likely to resemble Tatooine, the desert world with twin suns in Star Wars.

Scroll down for video

Professor Guinan said it is likely Promixa b ‘underwent a living hell in its early 300 to 400 million years’. Pictured is an artist's impression

Edward Guinan, professor in Villanova University's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, presented the findings during the American Astronomical Society meeting in Texas.

Professor Guinan said it is likely Promixa b ‘underwent a living hell in its early 300 to 400 million years’.

This is because Proxima b orbits its stars at a close distance, a twentieth of the distance between the sun and Mercury.

When it was first discovered, this close distance was considered positive for the planet’s chances of harbouring life.

Proxima b was discovered by scientists earlier this year, when they found a rocky world orbiting the nearest star outside of the solar system – Proxima Centauri, just 4.22 light years from the sun (illustrated)

Scientists have said the planet is more likely to resemble Tatooine, the desert world with twin suns in Star Wars. Pictured is a scene from Star Wars that was set on Tatooine

But now, researchers say it might have started life too close to its suns.

The two stars Proxima b orbits are called M dwarf stars.

When they are younger, these stars shoot out X-ray and ultraviolet radiation, which would have blasted the planet and evaporated any liquid water.

The young stars also give off dangerous solar flares, and if an orbiting world has a weak or no magnetic field, the star’s stellar winds could tear the atmosphere off the planet.

WHAT MAKES PROXIMA B SO UNIQUE? Distance: This is the closest Earth-like planet we could ever find. Orbiting our nearest star, the planet is only four light years away. Missions to send spacecraft to the planet to examine for signs of life are already in planning, and could happen within decades. Composition: The planet is rocky and a similar size to Earth. Temperature: It lies in the 'habitable zone' of its star, which means there could be liquid water on its surface - a key ingredient for alien life. The temperature on the surface of the planet could be between -90° and 30° Celsius (-130 and 86 Fahrenheit). Atmosphere: If Proxima b has an atmosphere, the simple ingredients - water, carbon dioxide, and rock - that are needed for the formation of biochemical cycles that we call life, could all be present and interacting on the planet's surface.

‘If you have a weak magnetic field, you’re done for,’ Professor Guinan said. ‘There’s really no way to survive.’

But there is still hope for finding alien life, according to some.

Victoria Meadows, from the University of Washington, said the evaporation of water could have created the building blocks for an oxygen-rich atmosphere up above the planet’s surface.

Proxima b might still be habitable if it has a strong magnetic field, or started out with a protective, hydrogen-rich envelope, or if it formed further away from the star than it is now.