Terrifying footage shows a shark swim just metres away from unsuspecting kitesurfer
It was a perfect day for kitesurfing, the spectacular white beaches of the WA south coast set against a cloudless sky.

But lurking beneath the cool blue water was a danger young French travel blogger Isabelle Fabre almost didn't notice until it was too late.

As she whipped across the shallow water last Sunday she saw a black shape below the surface, but dismissed it as just the shadow of her surfboard.

Scroll down for video

Travel blogger Isabelle Fabre, 30, filmed her very close encounter with a huge great white shark as it circled her on the WA south coast, footage showing how close it got

She thought it was the shadow of her board or a dolphin jumping around in the water until she passed directly over it

'Then I thought it was a dolphin doing a trick, you know when they spring out just in front of you and give you a heart attack,' she said.

However, Ms Fabre, 30, soon realised that not only was the menacing shape bigger than her board, it was circling her.

'When it passed beneath me, I realised it was a huge Great White shark,' she said.

Ms Fabre said the shark measured at least two metres

She tried to turn around and surf away from the predator, but the wind was too gentle and every time she dipped into the water she thought 'this is the end'

Her friend Cyril, who was shooting drone footage of her kitesurfing, also spotted the shark and was frantically shouting for her to get out of the water

She tried to turn around and surf away from the predator, but the wind was too gentle and every time she dipped into the water she thought 'this is the end'.

By now her friend Cyril, who was shooting drone footage of her kitesurfing, had also spotted the shark, which Ms Fabre said measured at least two metres, and was frantically shouting for her to get out of the water.

'I was struggling to get my ass out of the water and thought ‘I am done,' she said.

'I was struggling to get my ass out of the water and thought ‘I am done,' she said

Finally Ms Fabre reach the beach, shaking with fear at how close she came to death, but at least with a great story to tell her 9,000 followers

'I heard Cyril shouting shark Isabelle, get out... he saw everything through the drone and thought I was done too.

'I saw my life parade in front of my eyes every time I felt myself touch the water.'

Finally Ms Fabre reached the beach, shaking with fear at how close she came to death, but at least with a great story to tell her 9,000 followers.

Finally Ms Fabre reached the beach, shaking with fear at how close she came to death, but at least with a great story 'Now I can say that I have ridden a great white shark!' she said

It was a perfect day for kitesurfing, the spectacular white beaches of the WA south coast set against a cloudless sky

'Now I can say that I have ridden a great white shark!' she said.

To get over her scary experience, the popular blonde blogger climbed a 65 metre tree the next day using just metal handholds the next day and then went swimming with seals.

She has since gone kitesurfing in the same area several times, joking 'we're going to avoid getting eaten alive' in her next video.