Ivanka, Donald Jr. and Eric Trump share personal photos
Newly-minted First Daughter Ivanka Trump has celebrated her father Donald's inauguration by sharing a sweet photo of her family on their way to the inaugural parade.

The 35-year-old took to her social media accounts on Friday afternoon to share a photo of her and her husband Jared Kushner, 36, in a limousine with their two eldest children, Arabella and Joseph.

Later, she and the rest of her family walked the parade route before settling into seats to celebrate their dad's big event.

Ivanka Trump took to Instagram on Friday to share a photo of her and her husband Jared Kushner heading to the inaugural parade with their children Arabella and Joseph

The 35-year-old was all smiles as she walked with her three-year-old son Joseph in the parade

The doting mom made sure to check on Joseph during the walk

Ivanka waved while Jared held their nine-month-old son Theodore in his arms

The Trump children proudly cheered on their dad as he enjoyed his moment

Ivanka looked poised in her Oscar de la Renta ensemble as her brother held her nephew up high behind her

Ivanka's brother's Donald Jr. and Eric also took time during their hectic schedule to post photos of themselves enjoying the momentous day with their families.

The businesswoman's photo sees her and her husband sitting across from their children, who are all dressed up just like their parents.

'Heading to the parade! #inauguration,' she captioned the image; however, her children seem to be more interested in the technology in front of them.

While Ivanka and Jared are smiling for the camera, Arabella just looked up from the tablet that was in front of her, and three-year-old Joseph didn't even bother to do that.

Only Barron sat and rested as the rest of the family stood up and applauded

'Got greeted by the cutest Trump supporter just now after an amazing ceremony at The Capitol,' Donald Jr. wrote when he shard this Instagram photo of him and his daughter Chloe

'Standing here, the magnitude of this day, and the new job ahead, really hits home!' Eric captioned this snapshot of him and his wife Lara at the Capitol

Ivanka (far right) Theodore as she stood outside her father's limo at the inaugural parade

Arabella walked alongside her mother as she held Theodore firmly on her hip

For part of the walk, Ivanka held both Arabella and Joseph, who completed a red, white, and blue family picture

President Trump and First Lady Melanie led the family during the celebratory parade

The little boy was too busy playing with a smartphone to pose for the family picture.

Although Ivanka and Jared are both Orthodox Jews, The Jerusalem Post reports that the couple has received rabbinic permission to travel by car on Friday evening following the inauguration.

Jewish law states that driving or riding in cars is prohibited on the Sabbath; however, the Hebrew principle pikuach nefesh, or protection of life, overrides the rule in life-threatening situations.

According to the outlet, Mark Zell, chair of the Republican Party in Israel, stated during an interview with Kol Barama radio that the couple has been granted special permission by a rabbi to use a vehicle because of 'safety' concerns.

Once at the parade, the entire family smiled as they walked down the street together.

The family then watched the rest of the parade from the main viewing stand

Ivanka's husband Jared had been holding Theo, but passed him off to mom when their three-year-old son Joseph wanted to be picked up, too

Ivanka, Joseph, and Barron were all given front seats to the parade with their dad, while Tiffany and the older sons sat in the second row

Everyone seemed to enjoy the spectacle as they sat up above the parade route

Ivanka kept a huge smile plastered on her face, beaming happily for the crowd

Tiffany chatted with her sister-in-law in the seats behind Ivanka

Some of the smaller children got a lift from their parents, with Ivanka's husband Jared carrying baby Theodore for the first stretch. Soon, though, he'd handed Theo off to Ivanka and picked up their three-year-old son Joseph.

The family then piled into the prime seats to watch the proceedings, with Trump standing up to wave to the crowds while his children clapped and cheered him on.

Ivanka, who will be taking a role in her father's White House, and her husband Jared, who will also play a part, were honored with front row seats next to Trump and Melania. On their other side was Ivanka's younger brother Barron.

Tiffany, Eric, Don Jr., and the young men's wives and children also sat in the second row. Tiffany's boyfriend Ross Mechanic, who was on hand for festivities earlier in the day, did not join them in the seats of honor.

Earlier in the day, Ivanka made waves with her stunning white, asymmetrical coat and matching pants, and it looks like her daughter inherited her sense of style.

She also sat by as her father and husband chatted during the event

Trump's children Ivanka, Tiffany, Barron, Eric, and Donald Jr. are pictured entering the stage before the inauguration

President Donald Trump took the oath of office from U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts (R) with his wife Melania, and children Barron, Donald Jr., Ivanka, Eric, and Tiffany (from left to right) at his side

Donald Jr. took to Instagram to post a photo of his dad being sworn in and a message about the 'incredible experience'

Eric's wife Lara shared a snap from the inauguration and the caption: 'Surreal. So Proud.'

Ivanka and Tiffany both opted to wear suffragette white with contrasting shoes, while Melanie stunned in a pale blue Ralph Lauren ensemble

Arabella looked darling a red wool coat with a bow around her neck and matching red tights and shoes. Despite the history moment, the little girl didn't look too impressed as she watched her grandfather Donald sign documents after his inauguration.

President Trump was surrounded by his family and grandchildren during the moment, and being front and center did nothing for Arabella. The kindergartener was leaning on the desk with her chin resting on her chin, while she touched one of the spare pens with other.

After the inauguration, Ivanka's older brother Donald Jr., 39, shared an Instagram picture of himself posed with his two-year-old daughter Chloe.

'Got greeted by the cutest Trump supporter just now after an amazing ceremony at The Capitol. #inauguration #trump45 #trump #maga #usa #america,' he wrote.

Donald Jr. and his wife Vanessa took their two eldest children, Kai and Donald III, to the service at St. John's Episcopal Church on Friday morning

President Trump was surrounded by his family and his grandchildren as he signed documents after the inauguration

Ivanka and Jared's five-year-old daughter Arabella looked unimpressed as she played with a pen on the desk

Ivanka carried Theodore on hip and held Arabella's hand after her father, President Donald Trump, formally signed his cabinet nominations into law

Ivanka modeled a black and white gown while posing with her husband Jared ahead of Thursday night's pre-inauguration ball

The mother-of-three held her baby boy Theodore as she stepped off her father's plane with her family on Thursday afternoon

Both of them have wide smiles in the snapshot, and Chloe looks happy to be reunited with her dad after the ceremony.

Meanwhile, Eric, 33, took a moment to snap a selfie with his wife Lara before posting it on his Twitter page.

'Standing here, the magnitude of this day, and the new job ahead, really hits home! #Inauguration,' he wrote.

Lara, Eric's wife, added to a photo from the inauguration: 'Surreal. So proud.'

Don Jr. simply shared a photo of his father being sworn in, adding the caption: 'It doesn't get any more surreal than this for me. Just an incredible experience and honor to be there. #trump45 #trump #maga #usa #america.'

While Don's wife Vanessa hasn't posted anything on Instagram today, she did write earlier int he day on Twitter: 'Congratulations to my father in law @realDonaldTrump ! Your grandkids and I are so proud of you ! President Trump. [sic]'