Morgan set to ring changes for one-day match with India
On Sunday, England return to the scene of their heart-breaking defeat in last year’s World Twenty20 final still searching for their elusive first victory against India during a winter that has seriously tested their revival under Trevor Bayliss.

It was at the fabled Eden Gardens in March that Carlos Brathwaite launched Ben Stokes for four successive sixes to earn West Indies the most unlikely of wins and provide England with the first real disappointment of the Bayliss era.

Now a two-legged tour that saw England lose the Test series 4-0 to lead Alastair Cook to the brink of resignation has also brought defeats in the first two one-day internationals and has checked their limited-overs progress.

Eoin Morgan's side are two down going into the final one-day match on Sunday

England go into Sunday’s final 50-over game ahead of three Twenty20 internationals knowing that not even totals of 350 and 366, their two highest ever against India, have been enough to stop Virat Kohli and his dynamic side.

And, even though conditions will be very different in this summer’s Champions Trophy, a 3-0 whitewash would represent a significant setback for England’s hopes of winning that even more elusive first global 50-over title.

There will only be eight more one-day internationals after Sunday before June’s Champions Trophy and two of those, controversially, are set to be played against Ireland without key players who will be at the IPL instead.

That means Sunday is anything but a dead rubber as England seek to take advantage of what the 'prince' of Kolkata Sourav Ganguly was insisting on Saturday would be a more bowler friendly pitch than those for the Pune and Cuttack run-fests.

England certainly trained hard on Saturday at a venue Bayliss knows well from his days as Kolkata Knight Riders coach and captain Eoin Morgan was reluctant to reveal his side’s hand ahead of Sunday's toss.

Sam Billings is expected to get a chance at the top of the order following Alex Hales' injury

Yet it would be a big surprise if they did not make changes and allow the three players yet to appear in this series in Sam Billings, Jonny Bairstow and Liam Dawson their chance to stake a claim for a Champions Trophy place.

What looks certain is that Billings, unlucky not to have played more often for England, will get another chance at the top of the order with Alex Hales completing a winter he will want to forget by fracturing his hand in Cuttack.

Hales is struggling to be fit in time for the three-match series against West Indies at the start of March and Billings, a star in the making, could have made an unanswerable case to claim his Champions Trophy place after that.

Jason Roy, who has enjoyed a productive partnership with Hales, seemed happy enough to have a new man alongside him today when he extolled the virtues of Billings on Saturday.

‘He’s a fiery batsman and an awesome player and if he gets the nod at No2 that would be great,’ said Roy. ‘He’s a great bloke to bat with, runs hard, plays strong shots and that’s exactly what we look for at the top of the order to set the tone. We’ve got options and that’s what I think makes us a special side.’

Morgan will be hoping his side can get their first victory on Indian soil this winter

Roy put England’s defeats here down to ‘incredible individual performances’ and there is little doubt that their bowlers face another daunting task on Sunday against an India side that has had four century makers in two matches in Kohli, Yuvraj Singh, MS Dhoni and Kedar Jadhav.

At the forefront of England’s attempts to stop them will again be Stokes even though he has yet to be as effective as a white-ball bowler than in Test cricket, going for 79 and 73 runs in the two matches here so far.

Stokes has been in no mood to ponder what happened to him the last time he came to the Indian ‘city of joy’ and was in playful mood on Saturday as he teased Roy while he was doing a radio interview on the outfield ahead of training.

How England could do with their talisman having a smile on his face again at the end of Sunday's match with a tangible reward against India this winter in his grasp at long last.