Beloved Actress
Photo

TUESDAY PUZZLE — Crossword puzzles aren’t well known for evoking emotions. You don’t think about filling in empty squares and tearing up as you solve, but I’ll freely admit that I went a bit mushy when I saw where today’s theme was headed.

Constructors who can work quickly will sometimes pull together a puzzle when a person of note dies. We recently lost a beloved actress who had been through a lot in her life, and it touched me that Timothy Polin decided to make a tribute puzzle for her.

Today’s Theme

Today’s puzzle is dedicated to CARRIE FISHER, who died on Dec. 27, 2016, a day before her equally famous mother, the film star Debbie Reynolds, died as well.

Ms. Fisher was a fabulous performer and witty writer who portrayed some hilariously quirky women and wrote both fiction and nonfiction, but she was never able to outrun her most famous character, PRINCESS LEIA of the “Star Wars” franchise. Generations of science fiction fans remember her for her unusual hairstyle (some remember the gold bikini more, but today we’re celebrating her hairstyle) and her romance with Han Solo.



Click here to see the theme elements that are spread throughout the puzzle.

Tricky Clues

■ 1A: How intimidating is it to be asked to recall a specific act in a play or the key in which a piece of music is played? How are you supposed to remember when Polonius said “Brevity is the soul of wit?” The answer is, you’re not, even if you were a literature major. You can solve pretty easily using the crossings. The five-letter slot means that the first word has to be ACT (which is proven once you get the Down entries AFFECT, CARRIE and TIE-INS), and 5D is easy: the answer is “IT’S a trap!” Now you have ACT _I, and that means that the answer has to be either ACT II or ACT VI or more, and there are only five Acts in the play. See? No need for a photographic memory to solve crosswords.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

■ 22A: The answer to “Family member who was probably adopted,” much to my confusion, was not MY KID SISTER. It’s PET, and PET adoption is always a good idea.

■ 70A: The “Entitled sorts?” in today’s puzzle is PEERS, as in PEERS of the realm, who typically have titles of nobility.

■ 9D: O.K., here’s the thing about Rae Sremmurd. They are a RAP DUO from Georgia who released a song called “Black Beatles,” which became a hit after it was adopted as the only soundtrack to accompany your Mannequin Challenge (What, you haven’t done this? You’re late to the party). Get to know them, because they are a vowelicious pair and if they have follow-up hits, I predict we’ll see them quite a bit in puzzles:

■ 37D: I had _AW for awhile, until I figured out the center quote at 37A. #TIL that to YAW means to move back and forth along a flight path.

■ 49D: I don’t watch a whole lot of fútbol, or soccer, but I don’t think I’ve ever heard the players or the spectators shout OLE OLE. “Goooooooal,” maybe.

■ 56D: This cracked me up. “Real head-turners?” are OWLS today, not people who are hot.

Your thoughts?