President as Decorator in Chief?
Every modern president makes a distinct mark on the look of the Oval Office, the most powerful room in the country. But the impact is temporary; it tends to fade shortly after the room’s next occupant arrives. As a result, every president since Gerald Ford has sought to preserve his decorative influence with a replica of the Oval Office at their presidential library.

But those are just a fraction of Oval Office recreations. At least 27 imitations exist across the country, housed not only in presidential libraries but also in museums, private homes, film studios, and, in one case, an airport conference room. In 2013, the Polish photographer Nicolas Grospierre visited 18 of them over a month and a half for his series, “The Oval Offices.”

Mr. Grospierre’s work frequently focuses on architecture. One previous series, “Kolorobloki,” features composite images of imaginary buildings. Another looks at the idiosyncratic designs of Lithuanian bus stops. Last April, Prestel published “Modern Forms,” a book of Mr. Grospierre’s photographs of structures built between 1920 and 1989 around the world.

Photo

He turned his attention to the Oval Office in 2008, after coming across Umberto Eco’s essay, “Travels in Hyperreality,” which describes the Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library and Museum in Austin and its replica of the Oval Office during Johnson’s administration.

Johnson’s replica, like all those made for presidential libraries and museums, is as faithful as possible to the original, incorporating original items alongside exact copies. But in other environments, Oval Office interpretations are much looser, declining to refer to any one particular version of the space. In The Magic House, a children’s museum in St. Louis, the model features a lectern and a “Name That President” display. Another reproduction, which Ron Wade built for $200,000 in his Longview, Texas home, serves as a showroom for his collection of presidential memorabilia. At Oregon’s Rogue Valley International-Medford Airport, the office isn’t even oval (the back wall is, however, rounded).

“The more recent ones are interactive,” Mr. Grospierre said. “You can enter the space, you can pretend to be the president. There’s a continuum of illusion, which I think is very telling about the way we react to this phenomenon. We want so badly to believe it.”

Regardless of their accuracy, replicas are popular attractions. Part of the appeal, Mr. Grospierre speculated, may be the increasing visibility of the office in popular media. By his count, the office appeared in just 10 films between 1944 and 1982. That number ballooned in the 1990s and since the turn of the millennium it’s appeared in dozens more. In that time, Mr. Grospierre estimated, more than 20 new replicas have been constructed.

Photo

Mr. Grospierre’s compositions are nearly identical: a wide-angle view, with the president’s desk at the center of the frame. It’s an iconic perspective, Mr. Grospierre said, one viewers will easily recognize from movies and official White House photographs. The frames are, notably, unpopulated — with the exception of those made at Madame Tussauds wax museum in Hollywood, where a stiff semblance of the beaming president stands behind the desk, and in New York City, where the first lady joins him.

That consistency, Mr. Grospierre said, allows viewers to focus on the changes in decoration between administrations, including some of the quirkier additions, like a glass-encased ear of corn President Harry S. Truman — the first president to create an Oval Office replica — displayed atop a television. (Its significance is a mystery, even to the Truman Library and Museum.)

Still, Mr. Grospierre pointed out that most of the office redesigns have been largely subtle. If anything, he said, the Oval Office has come to look less and less like a place of work and more like a cozy living room. That, he says, seems to suit a space whose principal feature — its shape — serves not only to project centrality and power, but also inclusion and democracy.

“If there weren’t the Resolute Desk and the flags, you can easily imagine having a nice chat next to the fire there,” he said. “It’s sort of become more and more approachable in a way.”

Follow @teicherj and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. You can also find Lens on Facebook and Instagram.