Imogen Anthony shares hilarious fail video of her new cats
She's the 25-year-old socialite renowned for often sharing perhaps a little too much.

And it seems there'll be no chance of Imogen Anthony's two new pet cats escaping the social media spotlight either, judging by her latest Instagram video.

The Sydney-based model and girlfriend of radio shock jock Kyle Sandilands took to social media on Friday to share footage of the pair of cats playing in her lounge room - before the clumsy young kitten had a hilarious mishap.

Scroll down for video

Oh no! Imogen Anthony took to social media on Friday to share footage of the pair of cats playing in her lounge room, before her clumsy young kitten had a hilarious mishap (pictured)

Anthony's video begins with the mother cat sitting high on an elegant chair, while its young offspring bounds around the other side of the room.

Then, after pausing and readying itself, the young black and white cat rushes over towards its mother.

But as it goes to spring up onto the chair it seemingly misjudges the distance and as a result falls flat onto the floor, much to the amusement of Anthony.

New additions: After pausing and readying itself, the young black and white cat rushes over towards its mother, but misjudges the distance and as a result falls flat onto the floor (pictured)

Notoriety: Imogen is the longtime girlfriend of Sydney radio shock jock Kyle Sandilands, 45

The model accompanied her video with a heartwarming post, telling how she chose to adopt the two cats so they could be kept together.

'She's such a ditz,' Anthony began her post in reference to the cat's hilarious battle.

'Yesterday I adopted two cats, a mother and her kitten. I didn't want them to ever be separated.

Career change? The footage comes just two days after Anthony shared a video of herself playing and rolling around on the floor as she and a friend pretended to be strippers

'Although I'm sure her mother would have loved it at one point, she's such a menace, but absolutely adorable & hilarious.

She added: 'Kyle loves them too. Henry my ginger cat though, not so much although he will eventually come around... hopefully haha.'

The footage comes just two days after Anthony shared a video of herself playing and rolling around on the floor as she and a friend pretended to be strippers.

Just a normal Thursday night! The video shared with Imogen's 127,000 followers saw the Sydney socialite shaking her pert derrière with friend Krystal Dawson (right)

'Already got his a** clap s**t sorted,' she captioned the video of herself shaking her her pert buttocks in a stripper routine.

Wearing a g-string and thigh-high boots, she showed off a move alongside close friend Krystal Dawson and left little to the imagination of her 127,000 followers.