CamSoda gas mask blasts smells out while you watch VR porn
While virtual reality headsets can make you visually feel like you're in a situation, it can be difficult to switch off and fully immerse yourself in a scenario.

But a new sensory mask looks set to revolutionise the way virtual reality is used in the bedroom.

CamSoda has launched a mask that delivers smells to the virtual reality experience, providing users with immersive aromas while watching adult entertainment.

CamSoda has launched a new mask that delivers smells to the virtual reality experience, providing users with immersive aromas while watching adult entertainment

HOW DOES IT WORK? Users wear a sensory mask, which resembles a gas mask, alongside their virtual reality headset. The headset shows virtual reality porn, in which a selected man or woman appears to perform sexual acts on the user through a teledildonic device. Meanwhile, users can choose from a range of smells to pump through the mask, including 'private parts', 'body odour', 'fragrances', 'panties', 'aphrodisiacs' and 'environments'. When the cartridge containing the scent is heated, the aromas are pumped through the mask, immersing the user in the experience.

Dubbed 'OhRoma', users wear a sensory mask, which resembles a gas mask, alongside their virtual reality headset.

The headset shows virtual reality porn, in which a selected man or woman appears to perform sexual acts on the user through a teledildonic device.

Meanwhile, users can choose from a range of smells to pump through the mask, including 'private parts', 'body odour', 'fragrances', 'panties', 'aphrodisiacs' and 'environments'.

When the cartridge containing the scent is heated, the aromas are pumped through the mask, immersing the user in the experience.

Daron Lundeen, President of Austin-based CamSoda, told MailOnline: 'Smell provides that next dimension that heightens intimacy and takes the VR experience to the most immersive level yet.

When the cartridge containing the scent is heated, the aromas are pumped through the mask, immersing the user in the experience

'Users want an experience as up close and personal to their favourite performers as possible.

'And while watching content in VR might be better than watching from a laptop, it lacks certain sensations like smell, taste, and touch.'

To create the aromas, CamSoda worked alongside scent and aroma marketing companies from the sensory design space.

Users can choose from a range of smells to pump through the mask, including 'private parts', 'body odour', 'fragrances', 'panties', 'aphrodisiacs' and 'environments'

Mr Lundeen said: 'They specialise in creating and customizing odours per customer requests.

'The only thing is that they don't typically market to adult entertainment companies as you can imagine.

'So we had to throw in some "special sauce" and make some aromas realistic.'

The mask and VR headset work alongside an app, which allows users to combine the fragrances together, or choose how heavy or light each aroma is

The mask and VR headset work alongside an app, which allows users to combine the fragrances together, or choose how heavy or light each aroma is.

James B, who tested the mask, said: 'You smell panties, breasts, and even their skin.

'It smells so real you feel like you're actually there and totally forget where you are watching from.'

Alone, the mask will retail for $69.99 (£57), but users will also need to buy the scent cartridges, which will cost $5.99-$9.99 (£4.90-£8).