PICTURED: Editor selections from the past week in Asia
PICTURED: Editor selections from the past week in Asia

The inauguration of President Donald Trump drove many in Asia to the streets, with Filipino protesters burning a mock U.S. flag bearing Trump's image and thousands of Australians joining in a march in Sydney.

In other images from the Asia-Pacific region last week, relatives of those lost aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 were devastated by news that the search for the airliner had been called off, nearly three years after it disappeared in the Indian Ocean. Malaysia, Australia and China have agreed not to resume the search unless they get information about the plane's specific location.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made a two-day official visit to Vietnam, where Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc appealed for greater investment in the Southeast Asian country.

In this Friday, Jan. 20, 2017 photo, protesters burn a mock U.S. flag during a rally in front of the U.S. Embassy to coincide with the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States, in Manila, Philippines. Left-wing and Muslim activists have asked President Rodrigo Duterte in a noisy protest to keep his promise of charting a foreign policy independent of America by staying away from Trump. (AP Photo/Bullit Marquez, File)

Ethnic Chinese communities across the continent prepared for Chinese New Year on Jan. 28 by making traditional foods. And in Tokyo, half-naked parishioners threw cold water on themselves at the Kanda Myojin Shinto shrine in an annual cold-endurance festival.

___

This gallery was curated by Associated Press photo editor Wally Santana in Bangkok.

In this Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017 photo, thousands file through the streets during the Women's March protesting the start of Donald Trump's U.S. presidency as a skywriting plane spells out "Trump" above in Sydney, Australia. Protesters at the Women's March rally carried placards with slogans including "Women of the world resist," ''Feminism is my trump card" and "Fight like a girl." (AP Photo/Rick Rycroft, File)

In this Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2017 photo, Wen Wanchang, whose son was on board the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, cries as he waits for a meeting with Malaysia Airlines officials in Beijing, China. Some relatives of Flight 370's passengers expressed anger, disappointment and a resolve to press authorities to resume their efforts and find out exactly what happened. Others said they understood that the search ¿ the most expensive of its kind in aviation history ¿ had to come to an end. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan, File)

In this Monday, Jan. 16, 2017 file photo, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left on the podium, and his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc, second left, accompanied by their wives, Akie Abe, second right, and Tran Nguyet Thu, right, review an honor guard at the Presidential Palace in Hanoi during Abe's two-day official visit to Vietnam. (AP Photo/Minh Hoang, Pool, File)

In this Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2017 photo, workers make a toffee-like sweet cake called "dodol," one of the traditional delicacies served during Chinese New Year celebrations in Tangerang, on the outskirts of Jakarta, Indonesia. Ethnic Chinese communities in the world's most populous Muslim country are preparing to celebrate the start of the year of the rooster. (AP Photo/Tatan Syuflana, File)

In this Tuesday, Jan. 17, 2017 photo, impoverished Indian children watch a performance as part of advocacy against child labor in Allahabad, India. Despite the country's rapid economic growth, child labor remains widespread in India, where an estimated 13 million children work, with laws meant to keep kids in school and out of the workplace routinely flouted. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh, File)

In this Friday, Jan. 20, 2017 photo, a man with an umbrella stands in snow in front of the Gwanghwamun, the main gate of the 14th-century Gyeongbok Palace, one of South Korea's well-known landmarks, in Seoul, South Korea. (AP Photo/Lee Jin-man, File)

In this Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017 photo, half-naked shrine parishioners using wooden pots throw cold water on themselves during the annual cold-endurance festival at the Kanda Myojin Shinto shrine in Tokyo. Pouring cold water on their bodies is believed to purify their souls. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko, File)

In this Friday, Jan. 20, 2017 photo, roosters attack each other during a cockfight as part of Jonbeel festival near Jagiroad, about 75 kilometers (47 miles) east of Gauhati, India. Tribal communities like Tiwa, Karbi, Khasi, and Jaintia from nearby hills come down in large numbers to take part in the festival and exchange goods through an established barter system. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath, File)

In this Monday, Jan. 16, 2017 photo, a tree stands in snow in Pampore on the outskirts of Srinagar, Indian-controlled Kashmir. The only all-weather road link that connects the Kashmir valley to the rest of India was closed on the day due to heavy snowfall. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin)

In this Sunday, Jan. 15, 2017 photo, a pair of buffalos take on each other during a traditional buffalo fight held as part of Magh Bihu festivities at Boidyabori village, east of Gauhati, India. Magh Bihu is the harvest festival of north eastern Assam state and is observed in the Assamese month of Magh, that coincides with January. (AP Photo/ Anupam Nath, File)

In this Thursday, Jan. 19, 2017 photo, a man climbs a palm tree to collect juice from palm flowers to make a palm sugar during the harvest season at Chheu Buorn village on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, Cambodia. Some villagers of Chheu Buorn earn up to $7 a day by collecting palm juice as part of their daily income. (AP Photo/Heng Sinith, File)

In this Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2017 photo, two surfers carrying their boards are silhouetted against the sunset at Kuta Beach in Bali, Indonesia. (AP Photo/Firdia Lisnawati, File)

In this Saturday, Jan. 21, 2017 photo, an Olive-backed Sunbird feeds an insect to its two chicks in their nest in Klang, Selangor, Malaysia. Sunbirds, a group of very small passerine birds, feed largely on nectar, although they will also take insects, especially when feeding their young. Sunbirds are found in tropical Africa, India, and the forests of Southeast Asia, including the Philippines. (AP Photo/Vincent Thian, File)