Boeing 767 world tour with 50 friends for $14m
Imagine a trip where you get to tick everything off your bucket list, from dining with a member of the Royal family in London to partying in Ibiza, in just 20 days?

Imagine no more, an American luxury vacation company has crafted the jet-set trip of a lifetime where a holidaymaker can fly around the world visiting 20 different destinations on a privately outfitted Boeing 767, with a second Boeing Business Jet flying in tandem to transport up to 50 friends and family.

Highlights in the air include a $500,000 (£400,000) charity poker tournament with the world's top-ranked poker player Daniel Negreanu, in-flight yoga sessions, a fashion show, a master sommelier and a live acoustic performance onboard with an award-winning musician. However, the experience costs £14million.

The trip will visit 20 different destinations over the course of 20 days on a privately outfitted Boeing 767

Experts have also designed a holistic programme that integrates cutting-edge wearable sleep technology with alternative wellness techniques to help guests get to sleep on the trip

A second Boeing Business Jet will fly in tandem with the first plane, carrying up to 50 friends and family

The trip, which is being organised by DreamMaker and will completely circumnavigate the globe and cover 31,000 miles in the air this August, will cost an eye-watering $13,875,000 (£11,275,904).

The private jet will boast a one-to-one ratio of guest to staff, with experts including a hypnotherapist, an acupuncturist and a Reiki healer.

Health aficionados have also designed a holistic programme that integrates cutting-edge wearable sleep technology with alternative wellness techniques to help guests get to sleep.

DreamMaker's Gregory Patrick said: 'It is irrelevant how big and beautiful your private jet is if you are unable to relax comfortably or get the required amount of sleep on the plane.'

The trip will boast a one-to-one ratio of guest to staff, with experts including a hypnotherapist, an acupuncturist and a Reiki healer

A master sommelier will travel with the group to advise on the best wine for each of the gourmet meals

The journey will begin in Koh Samui, Thailand and continue through Siem Reap, Cambodia, Kathmandu in Nepal, Agra in India, Florence and Siena in Italy, Cannes and Moulinet in France, London, Barcelona, Ibiza, Marbella, Marrakesh, Havana, Knoxville in Tennessee, Hawaii, El Nido in the Philippines and a secret island, before concluding in Manila.

One of the highlights of the trip will be a blessing involving 50 monks amidst 50,000 lotus petals and during their stay in London at Hotel 41, guests will also be treated to dinner at a mansion in the city with a member of the Royal family wearing custom-made Savile Row suits and evening wear.

They will also co-host an Ibiza villa party with a Grammy Award-winning musician, meet a Commanding General and 50 of his Gurkha officers in Kathmandu, attend the Palio horse race in Siena, enjoy a private concert with Chris Botti under the stars at a villa in Marrakech, and dive for pearls in the South Sea.

The journey will begin in Koh Samui and visit a number of exotic locations around the world, before ending in the Philippines

The 50 guests will attend the Palio horse race in Siena while visiting the Italian region of Tuscany

On board the flight, a series of personalities will also hop on and hop off during various legs of the trip to provide lectures and Q&A's for guests, including a former commander of US forces, a previous chef to the Queen of England and an American baseball legend.

Guests will also have a souvenir each to take home from the trip - a set of 50 18-karat gold swizzle sticks set with white and blue diamonds worth a total of $1 million will be handed out on the holiday.

Part of the cost of the trip will go towards the charity Experiential Giving.

The guests will also get the opportunity to dive for pearls in the blue waters of the South Sea