School cleaner gets $156K after co-workers fake 'sex orgy'
A school cleaner has been awarded $156,000 for putting up with work colleagues who faked a sex orgy.

The male cleaner was traumatised by a groundsman and a supervisor who had made the Gold Coast school staff room look like it had hosted a group sex session.

A messed-up bed from the sick room, empty beer and wine bottles and condoms filled with cream were left to resemble the scene of an orgy.

A school cleaner was awarded $156,000 for putting up with work colleagues who made a school staff room look like the scene of a sex orgy. (Stock image)

Ladies' boxer shorts were left on the back of a chair while a bra was placed on a table.

Condoms were also placed on the kitchenette floor and near the mattress brought in from the sick bay.

The cleaner was traumatised after his work colleagues at Helensvale State School failed to own up to the prank, his lawyer Bruce Simmonds said.

'He was horrified and subjected to great emotional stress by this trauma especially when they didn’t own up to the joke and left him believing it was real,' Mr Simmonds said.

Shane Green found the whole episode devastating he didn't know who to tell. (Stock image)

The Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal accepted this prank in September 2014 had distressed the cleaner and ordered the state's Department of Education and Training to pay him $156,051.

'As a result of these events (he) suffered psychological consequences,' it said in its judgement, adding the cleaner had been targeted after complaining to the Anti-Discrimination Commission.

'The circumstances of the sexual harassment are unusual.'

Mr Simmonds said his client had been ordered to clean up the scene and was distressed as children were at the school.

The cleaner quit his job at Helensvale State School (pictured), lived off WorkCover and filed a sexual harassment claim when he learned the truth

'He was devastated by the incident. Who could he speak to? Who should he report this to? He bottled it up,' he said.

Other incidents of sexual harassment caused him to quit his job and rely on WorkCover.

He lodged a claim for sexual harassment after learning about what had happened.

'He feels humiliated by the experience and right now his future is unclear,' Mr Simmonds said.