Palestinian boy set fire to Israeli flag during graduation
Palestinian National Security Forces loyal to Hamas held a graduation ceremony for members on Sunday.

The ceremony, held in Gaza City in the northern region of the Gaza Strip, saw members showing off their military skills and burning a mock Israeli post - as well as an Israeli flag - as part of a drill.

The men showed off their fighting skills, marched in formation and even broke cement blocks with their hands during the event.

The ages of those featured in the ceremony ranged from small children to middle-aged adults.

Meanwhile, Hamas, the Islamist movement that runs the Gaza Strip, has managed to end a recent series of protests over the electricity crisis with a security crackdown and aid from Qatar used to purchase more fuel.

Palestinian National Security Forces loyal to Hamas held a graduation ceremony for members on Sunday. Hamas is the Islamist movement that runs the Gaza Strip

The ceremony, held in Gaza City in the northern region of the Gaza Strip, saw members showing off their military skills and burning a mock Israeli post - as well as an Israeli flag - as part of a drill. Pictured above, a Palestinian man helps a boy set fire to an Israeli flag during a graduation ceremony

The men showed off their fighting skills, marched in formation and even broke cement blocks with their hands during the event

Men of all ages were featured in the ceremony in Gaza City on Sunday. Those who took part ranged from young boys to teens to middle-aged adults

But frustration in places like Jabalia remains, and there are once again warnings that deteriorating conditions in the Palestinian enclave of two million people may be leading to a larger eruption of anger.

Gazans face electricity shortages all year, but the problem is exacerbated in winter and mid-summer, when power usage spikes.

The Hamas authorities in the coastal enclave usually provide electricity in eight-hour intervals, but supply was reduced to four hours this month.

Protests began modestly, with dozens of people holding candles, before culminating on January 12 with thousands marching in Jabalia towards the electricity company.

Hamas security forces fired into the air to disperse the crowd, carried out arrests and hit an AFP photographer who required stitches to his face.

Further protests were prevented by a show of force by Hamas security.

A member of Palestinian National Security Forces loyal to Hamas hangs a Palestinian flag after removing an Israeli flag from a mock Israeli army post during the ceremony

Members of the Palestinian Hamas security forces were seen making tower formations and showing off their skills in the event

During the ceremony, members of the ceremony had to take over a mock Israeli post as part of a drill (pictured above)

During the drill, the men wore black shifts, camouflage pants, combat boots and vests while carrying large guns

Perhaps sensing the urgency, Hamas sought help, including from Turkey and Qatar, which agreed to donate $12 million for fuel purchases.

On Monday, Hamas said it was returning to eight-hour electricity -- and was releasing all those arrested in connection with the protests.

A Gaza government spokesman argued that Jabalia protesters were attacking security forces and public buildings, but also said that Hamas was responding to demands by working to improve electricity supply.

Egypt's border with Gaza has also remained largely closed, and unemployment is around 42 per cent.

Three wars since 2008 between Palestinian militants in Gaza and Israel have left behind death and destruction, not to mention psychological scars.

Even those with longtime businesses have suffered.

During another part of the ceremony, members showed off their fighting skills and tried to take one another down

The combat fights appeared to be performed on large mats to help prevent the military members from being injured during the ceremony

Along with combat and military skills, men were seen breaking cement blocks with their fists during the ceremony on Sunday

"I need electricity for more than eight hours to complete my work for the customers," said 29-year-old Mohamed Abu Sharaf, whose family has had a print shop in Gaza City for 40 years.

As he spoke, the electricity cut again.

The recent shortages were complicated by a dispute with the Palestinian Authority, based in the West Bank and dominated by Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas's Fatah party.

Fatah and Hamas remain divided despite repeated attempts at reconciliation.

The Palestinian Authority handles fuel purchases from Israel since the Israeli authorities do not deal directly with Hamas, which they consider a terrorist organisation.

The PA then requires Hamas to reimburse it for bills and taxes, but Gaza's electricity company faces cash shortages because many customers do not pay.

As the men punched through stacks of cement blocks, the blocks were set on fire to make the task more difficult

Members of Palestinian National Security Forces loyal to Hamas march in formation during the graduation ceremony