Twitter officially shuts down Vine app
The day has come to say goodbye to Vine.

Twitter is shutting down the service today and encouraging users to download their archived clips before the app is transformed into another sharing tool.

Vine will be revamped into Vine Camera - an app that lets users shoot 6.5 second looping videos that can be uploaded to Twitter.

Scroll down for video

Twitter is officially pulling the plug on its video-looping service Vine. The social media network is encouraging users to download their archived clips before the app is transformed into another sharing tool

FAREWELL VINE Twitter is officially pulling the plug on Vine today. However, it will be transformed into an extension of the social media site, called Vine Camera. This new version will let users shoot 6.5 second looping videos, but can only share them to Twitter or save them in their camera roll. Vine is encouraging users to download their archived Vine clips. As soon as the app makes the transition any archived videos will be cone. Users will not be able to transfer their followers to Twitter, but Vine is encouraging its members to use ‘Follow on Twitter’.

‘On January 17 the Vine app will become the Vine Camera,’ Vine shared in FAQs on the site.

‘We will notify you through the app before this happens.

‘The Vine Camera will allow you to make 6.5 second looping videos and post them to Twitter, or save them to your camera roll in a logged out state.’

It has not yet been revealed when the app will make the transition.

DailyMail.com has contacted Twitter for comment and has yet to receive a response.

Vine was founded in June 2012, and Twitter acquired it in October 2012, just before its official launch.

As of last year, the app had over 200 million active monthly users and more than 1.5 billion loops have been viewed since inception.

The shutdown of Vine was announced in October and shortly after it was revealed that it would live on in a simpler tool – the Vine Camera app.

Users can upload their creations to Twitter right from the new app, if the accounts are linked, or by going through the social media site.

However, users will not be able to transfer their followers to Twitter, but Vine is encouraging its members to use ‘Follow on Twitter’.

And the firm notes that your account needs to be public and you must link your you Vine account with your Twitter.

Vine will be revamped into Vine Camera - an app that lets users shoot 6.5 second looping videos that can be uploaded to Twitter . The shutdown of Vine was announced in October and shortly after it was revealed that it would live on in a simpler tool – the Vine Camera app

The announcement of the shutdown came as Twitter announced plans to cut hundreds of jobs from its global workforce.

The firm said it planned to slash its total headcount by 9 percent, with the news following in the wake of failed attempts to find a buyer.

'We see a significant opportunity to increase growth as we continue to improve the core service.' said Jack Dorsey, co-founder of Vine.

Users can upload their creations to Twitter right from the new app, if the accounts are linked, or by going through the social media site. But they will not be able to transfer their followers to Twitter, but Vine is encouraging its members to use ‘Follow on Twitter’

VINE CO-FOUNDERS' NEW APP The co-founders of Vine announced in October that they were working on their next social app, which is said to go against Twitter’s own live app Periscope. Called HYPE, this live broadcasting app lets users add music and animations to their videos that can be shared to with friends and on other social networks. HYPE's has the ability to share different multimedia content in a single live broadcast, for example, users can add cameras or videos from their device’s camera roll and blend it with live content. Users can also feature viewer comments in their broadcast, in addition to music and emojis. Users tap any element to 'like the content, which creates 'sparkles' around it. And you can sign in with both Twitter and Facebook and they can share their creations on either. It will first roll out for iOS and Android will soon follow.

'We have a clear plan, and we're making the necessary changes to ensure Twitter is positioned for long-term growth.'

The announcement confirmed earlier reports that as the battle between the world's big social networks intensifies, Twitter was set to make widespread cuts.

Bloomberg reported a potential loss of 300 jobs, around eight per cent of the workforce, citing 'people familiar with the matter'.

The job cuts were announced as part of the company's report on its third-quarter earnings in December.

According to the balance sheet, it made a net loss of £83m ($102m) in the three months to the end of September, an improvement on last year's loss of £108m ($132m) for the period.

THE HISTORY OF VINE Vine was founded by Dom Hofmann, Rus Yusupov, and Colin Kroll in June 2012 in Florida. Before it had even launched officially, it was acquired by Twitter in October 2012 for a reported $30 million. It originated in Florida. The service was founded in June 2012, and Twitter acquired it in October 2012, just before its official launch. Vine officially launched on January 24, 2013 as a free app for iOS devices, with an Android version following on June 2, 2013. Within months, Vine became the most used video sharing application in the market at the time, and On April 9, 2013, Vine became the most-downloaded free app within the iOS App Store.

Twitter has announced it is set to cut hundreds of jobs, slashing its workforce by nine per cent

Advertising revenues slowed to 6 percent growth in the third quarter to £444m ($545m), easing back from 18 per cent growth in the second quarter.

MailOnline has contacted Twitter for comment.

In 2015, Twitter announced plans to lay off up to 336 employees, a week after Jack Dorsey, its co-founder who had been serving as interim chief executive, took over as permanent CEO.

Twitter's plan to sell itself was left in tatters earlier this month as the last major bidder walked away from a deal, causing its share price to fall dramatically.

TWITTER'S LATEST FIGURES In the three months before 1 October, Twitter made a net loss of £83m ($102m), an improvement on the same period last year. Its advertising revenues slowed to 6 percent growth to £444m ($545m), dropping off from 18 per cent growth in the second quarter. Despite a drop in profits and failure to find a buyer, Twitter reported that its average monthly users grew by three per cent. It also stated that 90 percent of its advertising revenue comes from mobile. Full figures are available online. FindTheCompany | Graphiq

In 2015, Twitter announced plans to lay off up to 336 employees, a week after Jack Dorsey (pictured), its co-founder who had been serving as interim chief executive, took over as permanent CEO

It emerged Salesforce was the most likely purchaser, after other potential acquirers, including Google and Walt Disney, decided not to pursue a deal.

The company said in September 2016 that it would lay off some employees and halt engineering work at one of its development centers in India's technology hub Bengaluru.

On Monday, Twitter said it rescheduled the release of its third-quarter earnings to before the market opens on Thursday to avoid conflicting with earnings announcements by other internet companies, reports Reuters.

It had originally planned to release results after the market close.

The company had 3,860 employees globally as of June.