Florida girl speaks out about her abusive grandparents
The granddaughter of the Florida couple who tortured their 10-year-old adopted children and killed one has spoken out about the months of abuse in the couple's home.

The girl, identified as A.P. in court documents as she is a minor, described the horrifying abuse she saw her grandparents administer to the 10-year-old twins they adopted.

The abuse concluded after two bodies were discovered in a pickup truck parked along Interstate 95 in Palm Beach County in February 2011.

Nubia and Victor Barahona were found soaked in chemicals - Victor was in critical condition while Nubia had died and her body was decomposing.

Their adopted father, Jorge Barahona, was found passed out nearby.

Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for Barahona and his wife, Carmen, for torturing the twins and killing Nubia.

The granddaughter of the Florida couple who burned who tortured their 10-year-old adopted children and killed one has spoken out about the months of abuse in the couple's home. Pictured: Nubia Barahona, who was found dead in 2011

The girl, identified as A.P. in court documents, described the horrifying abuse she saw her grandparents Jorge and Carmen Barahonaadminister to the 10-year-old twins they adopted

Nubia and Victor Barahona were found soaked in chemicals - Victor was in critical condition while Nubia had died and her body was decomposing

The couple's granddaughter, who was six when the abuse occurred would regularly visit the Barahonas' West Miami-Dade home, the Miami Herald reported.

She often was dropped off before school and would spend her afternoons at the home.

The girl, the daughter of Carmen's daughter Jennifer Perez and a child witness in the case, said that she saw the couple force Victor and Nubia to strip naked and walk in circles in the living room or stand naked for hours inside a trash can or the bathtub.

A.P. said: 'We just had to watch.'

The girl, who is now 13 and no longer lives with her mother, worked up the courage to speak out after her own family pressured her to keep silent.

When she once asked her grandmother why the twins were only fed milk and bread, her grandmother told her: 'That's what they deserved.'

Other evidence she offered of the horrific abuse included Jorge Barahona trying to drown Victor and the couple tying a rope around Victor's neck and trying to strangle him.

She also observed potential sexual assaults and may have been assaulted herself - once, Jorge forced all the children to 'play doctor' and touch each other inappropriately and another time she saw Nubia lying naked in bed with Jorge.

Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for Carmen and Jorge Barahona, for torturing the twins and killing Nubia

She said: 'It was very scary at times, seeing how they mistreated Nubia and Victor.'

She added: 'I wasn't allowed to go into the bathroom unless I was being supervised....They would always have the curtain closed, but there was a time when i saw Victor and Nubia in the bathtub tied with ropes or tape.'

A.P.'s own mother cautioned her not to speak out about the abuse, saying that it was a 'family secret' and said she would face 'big trouble' if she spoke out.

A.P. nonetheless told a child therapist about the abuse right before Nubia's death.

The therapist told the Florida Department of Children and Families what she had heard and agency investigators proceeded to look for the children - four days before they turned up on the side of the interstate.

The DCF had received multiple abuse complaints against the couple in the lead-up to Nubia's death, but it gave the Barahonas 'a pass' each time it investigated the allegations.

The children were found in a pickup truck off Interstate 95. A.P. said that she saw the couple force Victor and Nubia to strip naked and walk in circles in the living room

When A.P. once asked her grandmother why the twins were only fed milk and bread, her grandmother told her: 'That's what they deserved'

A.P. said: 'It was very scary at times, seeing how they mistreated Nubia and Victor'

Perez, A.P.'s mother, originally told investigators that she did not know about the abuse.

But the five-year statute of limitations on child abuse means she cannot be charged.

A.P. herself was initially reluctant to make a sworn statement, citing fear of her family's retaliation, but her testimony will likely be crucial in the case against the Barahonas.

She said: 'Well, I felt better that now you guys know what actually happened.'

Victor will also likely be a key witness in the case against his adoptive parents who tortured him and his sister, killing her.

He previously gave evidence of his adoptive father dousing the twins with ice water and bleach, wrapping a plastic bag around his head, forcing him to eat a cockroach and gluing his eye shut.

Jorge and Carmen Barahona were arrested in February 2011 and have been awaiting trial for Nubia's murder and aggravated child abuse - Jorge also faces an attempted murder charge.

The couple face the death penalty if convicted.

Video courtesy of NBC Miami