Teaching your child Mandarin may help them play the piano
Children who speak Mandarin could be more musical because of it, new research suggests.

Those between the ages of three and five who could speak the world's most popular language are better at processing pitch, a study found.

Scientists believe it is because the same word, spoken in a different tone, can have a completely separate meaning in the official Chinese tongue.

However, experts stress that teaching children Mandarin will not necessarily turn them into concert pianists.

Those between the ages of three and five who could speak the world's most popular language are better at processing pitch, a study found

A total of 180 Mandarin-speaking and English-speaking children were set tasks involving pitch contour and timbre.

Both groups were found to perform the same on the timbre task, relating to the quality of sound.

But the Mandarin speakers significantly outperformed the English on pitch tasks, researchers from the University of California, San Diego, found.

The researchers believe the attention to pitch Mandarin speakers pay, means they are better equipped in perceiving pitch in music.

Mandarin is a tone language, which means the tone which accompanies a word not only carries different emphasis, but can also dictate a different meaning.

For example, the syllable 'ma' in Mandarin can mean 'mother', 'numbing', 'hemp' or 'scold' depending on the way it is said.

However, experts stress that teaching your kids Mandarin will not necessarily turn them into concert pianists

People who learn Mandarin have to identify the subtle changes in pitch to convey the intended outcome.

Whilst in English, 'ma', can only mean one thing, 'mother'.

Study author Professor Sarah Creel said: 'We show for the first time that tone-language experience is associated with advanced musical pitch processing in young children.

BEING BILINGUAL BOOSTS THE BRAIN Learning a second language boosts the brain – and it’s never too late to begin, experts believe. Elderly men and women who studied Gaelic did better on tests of attention and other forms of mental sharpness after only a week, research by Edinburgh University found last year. The study also discovered that the process of juggling different tongues helps the brain to stay fit and sharp. Other research has suggested that bilingualism can stave off the onset of dementia by up to five years. It is thought that the effort of compartmentalising different languages and switching between them keeps the mind healthy for longer.

'There are far-reaching theoretical implications for neuroscience and behaviour.

'Our research has important practical implications for designing early intervention programs, or "brain training" regimes.'

She added: 'Both language and music contain pitch changes, so if language is a separate mental faculty, then pitch processing in language should be separate from pitch processing in music.

'On the other hand, if these seemingly different abilities are carried out by overlapping cognitive mechanisms or brain areas, then experience with musical pitch processing should affect language pitch processing, and vice versa.'

While the study, published in Developmental Science, focused on Mandarin, tonal languages are also common in parts of Africa, East Asia and Central America.

It is thought that as many as 70 per cent of the world's languages could be considered tonal, including Thai, Yoruba, a Nigerian language and Xhosa, a South African dialect.

Professor Gail Heyman, who was also involved in the study, said: 'It's still true that to succeed at music, you need to study music.

'Learning an additional language is a demonstrably good thing in itself, too, whether or not it makes you a better musician.'