Olivia Newton John looks younger than her 68 years
It's been almost 40 years since she starred in Grease, but Olivia Newton-John proved she's still got it - and still has dedicated fans around the world.

On Saturday, the Aussie actress arrived at RTE studios in Dublin, Ireland to appear on The Ray Darcy Show and was surrounded by eager autograph hunters.

Olivia looked as youthful as ever with glowing skin, plump cheeks and shiny blonde hair making her appear much younger than her 68 years.

Youthful: On Saturday the Aussie actress arrived at RTE studios in Dublin and looked as youthful as ever with glowing skin, plump cheeks and shiny blonde hair making her appear much younger than her 68 years

It's cold in here! The singer was rugged up against the minus temperatures of the Irish winter in a huge black puffer jacket and long scarf

She was rugged up against the minus temperatures of the Irish winter in a huge black puffer jacket and long scarf.

The Xanadu star even donned a super-tight pair of leather pants, much like those she would have worn in her Grease heyday, proving her figure is still incredible.

Several fans waited for the star outside the studio, brandishing photos for the singer to sign, which she was only too pleased to do.

Big in Dublin: She was slated to appear on The Ray Darcy Show and was surrounded by eager autograph hunters

No work done: The Grease star admitted that she has been tempted in the past and even went to see plastic surgeons for consultations when she was 'down and depressed'

Despite her youthful appearance Olivia previously revealed that she could never go through with plastic surgery because she did not want to look like 'those women' in Hollywood.

The Grease star admitted that she has been tempted in the past and even went to see plastic surgeons for consultations when she was 'down and depressed.'

Speaking to Stellar last year, she said: 'I've had points in my life when I've gone to see plastic surgeons, when I was down and depressed or after a break-up.

Down and out: Speaking to Stellar last year, she said: 'I've had points in my life when I've gone to see plastic surgeons, when I was down and depressed or after a break-up'

No surgery for her: 'I couldn't go through with it. I thought, 'I don't want to look like those women'. Some of them look great, it doesn't all look bad, but I couldn't do it,' Olivia said

'I couldn't go through with it. I thought, 'I don't want to look like those women'. Some of them look great, it doesn't all look bad, but I couldn't do it.'

She told the publication she has always wanted to grow old 'gracefully' rather than 'cut and slash.'

She added, 'So far I have, and I hope I can continue to do that.'

Grace and beauty: The actress says she has always wanted to grow old 'gracefully' rather than 'cut and slash'



