Gary Barlow 'blocks' Sam Callahan on Twitter over snap
They appeared together on The X Factor in 2013- one as a judge and one as a contestant.

But it appears the competition certainly didn't bond them, after Sam Callahan claimed Gary Barlow blocked him on Twitter.

The ex-X Factor contestant tweeted a semi-clad snap of the former X Factor judge on his 46th birthday on Saturday- and Gary appeared less than impressed.

Scroll down for video

Awks! Former X Factor contestant Sam Callahan tweeted a semi-clad snap of the Gary Barlow on his 46th birthday on Saturday

The tweet showed Gary at the beginning of his Take That days over twenty years ago posing in nothing but a pair of skimpy Y-Fronts, his hair bleach-blonde.

The picture's caption read: 'Yes, undies-watchers, this is none other than Take That's Gary 'bleach blond' Barlow caught – literally – with his pants down during a photo session early in the band's career. As if that wasn’t bad enough, fellow Take Thatter Howard also joined him for some other pics. Everything changes, eh readers.”

And Sam added a very racy picture of himself alongside the snap, posing naked next to a ladder for Gay Times.

Unimpressed: The semi-clad snap appeared to be one birthday wish Gary could do without, as shortly afterwards Sam shared a screenshot of what appeared to be Gary blocking him

'Wowie @garybarlow, nearly half a century! Happy Birthday old boy!' he tweeted with a winkie face and naughty monkey emoji.

But this appeared to be one birthday wish Gary could do without, as shortly afterwards Sam shared a screenshot of what appeared to be Gary blocking him.

'Erm awkward', he tweeted alongside an emoji of a monkey covering his eyes.

'Wowie @garybarlow, nearly half a century! Happy Birthday old boy!' he tweeted with a winkie face and naughty monkey emoji

'Erm awkward', he tweeted alongside an emoji of a monkey covering his eyes

In 2013 Sam revealed he learned to deal with regular criticism of his vocal ability from Gary during his time on the X Factor.

During one performance the Take That star said: 'I thought the vocals were really exposed. You are not the best singer in the competition, the problem for you is everyone else is so much better than you.'

And questioned by Caroline Flack on whether he 'felt like this year's Rylan', Sam replied: 'I do actually, I thought about that before. I do feel a bit like....kind of starting to feel a bit like Gary's punch bag at the minute.'

But he later said: ' I didn't let it get to me for more than ten minutes at a time. I'm a positive person, I literally turn it around and think right, come back fighting next week if I get through. I'm one of those speedballs, punch it and it comes back quicker. '

I do feel a bit like....kind of starting to feel a bit like Gary's punch bag at the minute': In 2013 Sam revealed he learned to deal with regular criticism of his vocal ability from Gary during his time on the X Factor