Bambi Northwood-Blyth sizzles during Bondi photoshoot
She took time out from her busy schedule over the holidays to relax by the beach.

But Bambi Northwood-Blyth, 24, has made her return to work, pictured in full flight at a modelling shoot near picturesque Bondi Beach, Sydney.

Posing alongside fellow leading models Montana Cox, 23, and Tahnee Atkinson, 24, Northwood-Blyth smiled and appeared to be having fun during Monday's shoot.

Sizzling: Bambi Northwood-Blyth was been pictured taking part in a casual photo shoot in Bondi, Sydney on Monday

Leading girls: The 24-year-old posed alongside Montana Cox, 23, and Tahnee Atkinson, 24

Taking to a seemingly run down tennis court in the sunny beachside suburb, the trio of models all rocked casual looks.

Bambi appeared to go bra-less as she fronted the camera with a smile on her face.

Wearing a small white T-shirt that showed off her midriff, her incredible physique was fully on display throughout the shoot.

Hanging out! The three models smiled and appeared to be having fun during Monday's shoot

Feeling free! Bambi appeared to go bra-less as she fronted the camera, rocking a casual look

Combining the top with a pair of rolled-up white jeans and some navy tennis shoes, casual was definitely the order of the day.

Alongside her, both Montana and Tahnee were also looking comfortable in their outfits.

With her curly hair flowing down to her shoulders, Montana donned a grey singlet and a pair of heavily flared blue jeans.

Fit: Bambi wore a small white T-shirt that showed off her midriff throughout the photoshoot

Play time: The trio laughed as Tahnee gave Bambi a piggyback and Montana posed naturally

Gorgeous: Tahnee wore tight-fitting skinny blue denim jeans and a white singlet, also opting to let her hair down

On the fence: The trio all rocked casual looks as the took to a seemingly run down tennis court

Blue steel: With her curly hair flowing down to her shoulders, Montana donned a grey singlet and a pair of heavily flared blue jeans

Group shot: While all three posed for individual photos of their outfits, they also came together on a number of occasions

Tahnee wore tight-fitting skinny blue denim jeans and a white singlet, also opting to let her hair down.

While all three posed for individual photos of their outfits, they also came together on a number of occasions.

At one stage the trio laughed as Tahnee gave Bambi a piggyback and Montana posed naturally.

Laugh a minute: Judging from their body language the threesome enjoyed their time together

Helpers on hand: Production staff were always nearby to ensure the trio looked their best

Back to work: Bambi appeared to take some time off over the holidays, but was back modelling on Monday

It seems the threesome enjoyed their time together, later taking to Instagram to share a photo of themselves pre-shoot.

'ROBELYF WITH THESE BABES ON A MONDAY,' Bambi captioned her image.

The same photo was later re-posted by Montana, who said: 'Bring your friend to work day'.

Down time: After standing on alongside the fence, the trio later got to take a set on the court

And... relax: After their work the models took to Instagram to share a photo of themselves pre-shoot