Trump blasts celebrities and protesters from Women's March
Donald Trump has lashed out at the millions of people who took to the streets to protest against his presidency.

Crowd estimates for the Women's March in Washington DC on Saturday topped one-million, while another 1.5 million were on the streets in Chicago, Boston, New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and more than 600 other cities across America and the world.

The number of people in DC alone for the demonstration appeared to dwarf the number who lined the same streets on Friday for Trump's inauguration.

But that did not stop the Donald from taking aim at all those people in a tweet on Sunday morning.

Scroll down for video

Donald Trump has lashed out at the millions of people who took to the streets in protest against his presidency. Pictured is the crowd in Washington DC

Trump fired off a series of tweets on Sunday morning, one of which was focused on the protests

Trump sent out a tweet later in the morning that had a much softer tone - after his initial comment was slammed on social media

'Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn't these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly,' he wrote.

But he then tried to backtrack on the remark, offering up a much softer message in a tweet sent more than an hour later.

'Peaceful protests are a hallmark of our democracy. Even if I don't always agree, I recognize the rights of people to express their views,' he said.

The second tweet did not stop many reacting angrily to Trump's initial comments, with thousands responding to it negatively.

'This is all you have to say about the largest protest in US history? Stop tweeting until you decide to start governing,' Joseph Amodeo wrote.

'Millions more Americans voted against you sir. You said you would unite the country...yesterday demonstrated that unity!' Lonnell Williams said.

Many people hit back at Trump's original claims about not voting in a series of tweets on Sunday morning

'FYI we did vote. You lost the popular vote. I'm surprised you don't remember that. It seems to keep you up at night,' Maria Del Russo tweeted.

'Honey, more than 65 million of them did vote,' Bess Kalb added.

Earlier, Trump followed up his initial comment with a message about the number of people who watched his inauguration on TV, tweeting: 'Wow, television ratings just out: 31 million people watched the Inauguration, 11 million more than the very good ratings from 4 years ago!'

Nielsen ratings confirmed Trump's claims were correct, however his inauguration did not have 'the largest audience ever' - as his spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters as Saturday night.

'Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn't these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly,' Trump wrote. He is pictured during the inauguration

Trump also tweeted about the television ratings for the inauguration, which were the fifth most in history

The crowd during Trump's inauguration on Friday is seen. Experts say it was dwarfed by the number in attendance on Saturday during the Women's March

White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer claimed on Saturday night Trump's inauguration had the biggest audience ever, despite it being only the fifth highest viewed ceremony, according to Nielsen

The 2009 inauguration of Obama, who became the nation's first African-American president that year, was watched by nearly 38 million viewers, the second-highest number since Nielsen began compiling such figures with Richard Nixon's 1969 oath of office.

Only Reagan drew a bigger US TV inauguration audience, with nearly 42 million viewers tuning in to see the California Republican sworn in for his first term in 1981.

Trump's total was greater than both swearing-ins of Democrat Bill Clinton - 29.7 million and 21.6 million - and the second inauguration of Obama, who drew an average audience of over 20.5 million in 2013, according to Nielsen.

However, he was beaten by another Democrat - Jimmy Carter, who drew a TV audience of 34.1 million viewers watching his 1977 swearing-in.

Demonstrators are seen on The Ellipse outside the White House during the Women's March on Washington as night began to fall on Saturday

The National Mall in DC was completely filled with a sea of protesters during the Women's March on Washington on Saturday

An estimated one million people are believed to have taken to the streets on Washington DC (pictured) to protest against President Donald Trump

A sea of pink hats: Hundreds of protesters are seen above peacefully gathered on the streets of Washington DC

Demonstrators march across 42nd Street in New York, The Donald's hometown. It was estimated 400,000 demonstrated in the Big Apple

Protesters fill the streets of downtown Los Angeles for the Women's March. It was estimated 750,000 turned out there

The tens of thousands of people who turned out for the women's march in Chicago have spilled into the city's downtown streets

Overall, Trump ranked fifth on the list for ratings. The President was also beaten by another Democrat, Hillary Clinton, in the popular vote in 2016 - with the former secretary of state getting almost three-million more votes than Trump.

The protests on Saturday were attended by a number of celebrities, including Scarlett Johansson, Amy Schumer, Charlize Theron, Katy Perry, Ashley Judd, Alicia Keys, Julia Roberts, and Madonna.

Madonna will reportedly be investigated for comments she made at the march in DC, when she claimed to have thought about 'blowing up the White House' since Trump's triumph.

Donning a black p***yhat, she caused controversy by dropping the F-bomb four times, sparking a slew of apologies from broadcasters airing the protest live.

She went on to speak of her rage at the election result, telling the crowd she had thought a lot about 'blowing up the White House' but knew that it 'wouldn't change anything'.

Madonna was one of the celebrities who took part in the Washington demonstration on Saturday

The pop-star will reportedly be investigated for comments she made, when she claimed to have thought about 'blowing up the White House' since Trump's triumph

Scarlett Johansson was another of the big names who took to the streets in DC on Saturday

Charlize Theron had tears in her eyes as she attended the Women's March in Park City, Utah on Saturday morning

According to the Gateway Pundit, a spokesman for the Secret Service said they were 'aware' of Madonna's comments and will open an investigation, but the ultimate decision whether or not to prosecute is the decision of the Attorney's Office.

The Secret Service declined to comment on the matter.

Madonna stated in her impassioned speech: 'I'm angry. Yes, I am outraged. Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House. But I know that this won't change anything.

Katy Perry wore a pink jacket and a beige hat as she was seen with Senator Cory Booker at the march in DC

Comedian Amy Schumer and singer Alicia Keys were seen during the marches against Trump on Saturday

Emma Watson attends the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017

'We cannot fall into despair. As the poet W. H. Auden once wrote on the eve of World War Two, "We must love one another or die." I choose love. Are you with me?'

During her speech, Johansson said: 'Support my daughter, who may actually as a result of the appointments you have made, grow up in a country that is moving backwards, not forwards, and potentially may not.'

Helen Mirren, Emma Watson, John Legend and Chrissy Teigen, Natalie Portman, Miley Cyrus, Cher, Jessica Chastain, Mark Ruffalo, U2's The Edge, Olivia Wilde, and a host of other stars were also spotted during marches across the country.

Actor Mark Ruffalo was spotted in Manhattan during the march against Donald Trump on Saturday

Natalie Portman wore a shirt in LA that read: 'We Should All Be Feministd' during the demonstration on Saturday