Gold's Matthew McConaughey ate burgers and beer breakfast
His utter commitment to his acting roles have seen him earn Oscar gold.

But it seems that it wasn't all just work for Matthew McConaughey when it came to preparing for his latest project, Gold, as he admits his weight-gain was fun.

Speaking on The Graham Norton about his prep for the up-coming flick, the actor, 47, said his family missed him being fat as he revealed he ate cheeseburger and beer for breakfast.

Scroll down for video

Roly-poly fun: It seems that it wasn't all just work for Matthew McConaughey when it came to preparing for his latest project, Gold, as he admits his weight-gain was fun

In the interview, due to be aired on Friday evening, the Oscar-winning star joked that his 47-pound weight gain had been a very fun period for him and his family.

He told Graham: 'I’ve had roles where I’ve lost a lot of weight, but for this one got to gain a lot of weight. Gaining is much more fun!'

And it seems that the Dallas Buyers Club star wasn't the only one who enjoyed the period of lax rules and living made his family happy too.

'For six months I had a rule that everyone had to say yes to every desire they wanted 24/7,' he said, before adding:'I was a real yes man.'

Quite the bulk: Speaking on The Graham Norton about his prep for the flick, the actor, 47, said his family missed him being fat as he revealed he ate cheeseburger and beer for breakfast

He elaborated on the family's 'fun' regime, explaining: 'Pizza night could be any night and if the kids wanted to go bowling at midnight on a school night that was a great idea too.

'Cheeseburger and beer for breakfast was a great idea too. I really relaxed on the rules!'

And speaking of his family's reaction to his weight-gain, he said: 'It was fun and my family kind of misses me being a fat ass.

Just say yes: He told Graham: 'For six months I had a rule that everyone had to say yes to every desire they wanted 24/7. I was a real yes man'

'Cheeseburger and beer for breakfast was a great idea too. I really relaxed on the rules!': The Oscar-winner admitted that the 47-pound weight-gain was a really fun period of his life

'My nickname in the family was Captain Fun. The whole family probably put on a little extra luggage but I was fat and happy!'

However, it seems that shifting the bulk he put on to play the roguish Kenny Wells in the true-to-life film wasn't so easy to live with after shooting had wrapped up.

'I didn’t think about it until I got there and when I did get there I noticed that quite a lot of fat had really settled in,' he said of his reaction after production had wrapped.

Mr. Big! And speaking of his family's reaction to his weight-gain, he said: 'It was fun and my family kind of misses me being a fat ass'

Is this it? It wasn't so easy to shift the weight it would seem, as the actor admitted: 'I did have a few moments when I looked in the mirror and thought, "This may be it buddy!”'

A golden role: Gold sees Matthew take on the role of Wells, a prospector desperate for a lucky break who teams up with a similarly eager geologist

An adventure: The pair set off on a journey to find gold in the uncharted jungle of Indonesia, but if they thought getting that was hard, they soon find out keeping it is even more difficult

'I did have a few moments when I looked in the mirror and thought, "This may be it buddy!”'

Gold sees Matthew take on the role of Wells, a prospector desperate for a lucky break who teams up with a similarly eager geologist.

The pair set off on an amazing journey to find gold in the uncharted jungle of Indonesia, but if they thought getting the gold was hard, they soon find out keeping it is even more difficult.

Watch the full interview on The Graham Norton show on BBC ONE, Friday January 20 at 10:35pm.

Star-studded: Graham's other guests on his Friday night show include (L-R): Christina Ricci, Josh Widdicombe and Ed Sheeran

Main man: Matthew later attended a screening of his new film at London's Ham Yard Hotel

Casual: The star looked typically relaxed in a loose fitting shirt, jeans and scuffed boots