Incorrect information press secretary Sean Spicer used
White House press secretary Sean Spicer came out swinging in his first media briefing when he accused journalists of 'deliberately false reporting' on Donald Trump's inauguration.

But as Spicer lambasted the media for focusing on the size of the crowds at the inauguration, he also used several items of false information - opening himself to criticism from the reporters he was attempting to scold.

The resulting feud threatens to drag on for days.

Here are the four inaccurate claims Spicer used:

White House press secretary Sean Spicer used several pieces of false information when he came out swinging in his first media briefing on Saturday when he criticized the media

Metro riders in Washington

Spicer said: 'We know that 420,000 people used the D.C. Metro public transit yesterday, which actually compares to 317,000 that used it for President Obama's last inaugural.'

Full day Metro ridership for Trump's inauguration day was 571,000 and for Obama's 2013 inauguration it was 782,000, according to the Washington Metro Area Transit Authority.

The 317,000 figure Spicer quoted for Obama is the ridership until 11am. The comparable figure for Trump is 193,000 trips.

The figures Spicer used don't make for an exact comparison between Obama and Trump's inauguration days.

It is not clear where Spicer's 420,000 figure came from. Full day ridership for Obama's inauguration day in 2009 was 1.1 million.

Spicer claimed that 420,000 people used the Metro on Friday to see Trump be sworn in as president and that 317,000 used the transit system for Obama in 2013. Metro figures reveal Trump's was 571,000 and Obama's was 782,000

The Washington Metro Area Transit Authority published figures on Friday for the past four inaugurations for people traveling up to 11am ahead of the 12pm ceremony

Donald Trump was sworn in as the 45th president of the United States by Chief Justice John Roberts on Friday morning

Empty space in crowd

Spicer said: 'And from the media tent to the Washington Monument, another 250,000 people. All of this space was full when the President took the oath of office.'

Reuters photo editor Jim Bourg says a photo taken at the top of the Washington Monument that shows spaces in the crowd was taken at 12:01:18 p.m. on Friday.

At the time Trump was being sworn in as president.

'Only one news organization had a still photographer atop the Washington monument for the inauguration and I assigned him to be there,' Bourg said.

'This photo by Reuters News Pictures staff photographer Lucas Jackson was taken at 12:01:18 p.m. on Friday and not much earlier as many people are trying to claim.'

Reuters photo editor Jim Bourg says this photo taken at the top of the Washington Monument that has been widely circulated was taken at 12:01:18 p.m. as Trump was taking the oath of office on Friday. It shows empty space in the crowd. Sean Spicer had claimed crowds reached back to the monument when Trump was being sworn in .

Reuters editor Jim Bourg revealed on Sunday that one of his photographers took the photo at exactly 12:01:18 p.m. on Friday

Donald Trump said at the CIA on Saturday that his own gut feeling on the crowd size at his inauguration was 'a million and a half people'

Floor coverings

Spicer said: 'This was the first time in our nation's history that floor coverings have been used to protect the grass on the Mall. That had the effect of highlighting any areas where people were not standing, while in years past the grass eliminated this visual.'

Photographs from Obama's inauguration in 2013 clearly show workers laying mats to protect the lawn on the National Mall.

It refutes Spicer's claim that 'floor coverings' seen on Friday were a new phenomenon.

Workers were pictured laying down special mats to protect the lawn for Barack Obama's inauguration in 2013. Trump's press secretary had claimed on Saturday that mats were used for the first time in 2017

This was the view towards the Washington Monument on Trump's inauguration. It was taken from a platform a few hundred yards from the East Portico of the Capitol

Largest ever audience

Spicer said: 'This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration - period - both in person and around the globe.'

Global TV audiences are extremely hard to measure, but domestic TV ratings figures show fewer people watched Trump's inauguration than Obama's in 2009.

Nielson ratings, an information company that tracks the television viewing audience of all inaugurations, released its final numbers on Donald Trump's White House induction - at 30.9 million domestic viewers.

The 31 million figure is seven million fewer eyeballs than Obama received in 2009.

Ronald Reagan is the highest since Nielsen started compiling the domestic viewing figures with Richard Nixon's 1969 oath of office. Reagan drew in a television audience of 42 million viewers when he was sworn in for his first term in 1981.

Obama drew an average audience of over 20.5 million in 2013 for his second inauguration, according to Nielsen.



