London hoarder fined £3,500 for refusing to clear junk
A hoarder has been fined £3,500 for refusing to clear a huge pile of junk outside her home.

Noreen Chambers was repeatedly warned to tidy up the mess outside her home in Thornton Heath, south London, but failed to clear the bags of rubble, planks of wood, traffic cones, scaffolding poles and bricks dumped on the pavement and road.

She was first given a warning in October 2015 after a string of complaints from neighbours.

Miss Chambers was visited by council workers in November 2015, but her front and back gardens were so jammed with rubbish the workers couldn't get to the front door.

Noreen Chambers was repeatedly warned to tidy up the mess outside her home in Thornton Heath, south London, but failed to clear the bags of rubble, planks of wood, traffic cones, scaffolding poles and bricks dumped on the pavement and road

She was issued with a Community Protection Warning the same month and told to tidy up the mess by December 2015.

She ignored the letters and rubbish continued to build up outside her home - with neighbours getting increasingly frustrated with the mess.

It wasn't until she was served with a Community Protection Notice, under the Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2014, in February 2016, that she contacted the council and was granted until March to clear it up.

Again, she failed to tidy the mess up or attend meetings with council workers and the council launched legal proceedings against her.

And last week, despite not attending the hearing at Camberwell Magistrates' Court, she was slapped with fines totalling £3,500 and ordered to pay a £20 victim surcharge after being found guilty of failing to comply with a Community Protection Notice.

She was told she had six weeks to clear the mess - or face further legal action.

Community Protection Notices are handing out to people whose behaviour has a 'detrimental effect, of a persistent or continuing nature, on the quality of life of those in the locality'.

One local, who asked not to be named, said: 'The road has been a complete tip for more than a year - it takes up so much room and is just gets bigger and bigger and it stops residents from parking on the street.

'I've moved some of it in the past and put it in a skip, but every morning there was more added.'

A spokesman for Croydon Council said last week: 'A woman who ignored formal notices from the council and continued to pile junk outside her property has been ordered by the courts to clear up, fined - and landed with a huge bill totalling more than £3,000.

'Magistrates heard Croydon Council first attempted to contact the owner of the house in Burlington Road in October 2015 after neighbours complained to the council about the heaps of rubbish surrounding the property.

'On visiting the property a neighbourhood officer found household and garden rubbish piled high in the front and back gardens but was unable to gain access.

'Investigations showed Ms Chambers to be the owner and after several unsuccessful attempts to contact her, in November 2015 the council issued her with a Community Protection Warning in 2015, requiring her to clear up the mess by December.

'In February 2016, when she had still failed to reply or to clean up the rubbish, which was still accumulating, Croydon Council served a Community Protection Notice on the property.

'Following this Ms Chambers did contact the council - to request an extension allowing her until March to clear the site, which was granted.

'But she still failed to take any action to clear the site and officers confirmed through visits to the property that not only was rubbish still heaped in the garden, it was now spilling out onto the pavement and the kerb.

'In April she failed to attend an interview with the council and after extensive efforts to engage with her and resolve the issue informally - which were unsuccessful - last year Croydon Council commenced legal proceedings.'

Cllr Stuart Collins, of Croydon Council, said: 'This is a horrendous example of how the inconsiderate behaviour of one person can blight a community.

'Rubbish dumped in residential areas not only looks and smells awful, it can be a serious health hazard.

'Clean streets are a priority for us and we will always try to work with all Croydon's residents and help them dispose of waste responsibly but as our Don't Mess With Croydon campaign shows, we won't hesitate to take a tough stance and use enforcement powers when required.

'We have done everything in our power to work with Ms Chambers but she has refused to respond.'