Khloe Kardashian gets cheeky on Snapchat with new beau
They've only been dating since September.

But it certainly looks like things are going swimmingly for Khloe Kardashian and boyfriend Tristan Thompson.

The 32-year-old reality star decided to document the couple's night on the town Friday evening.

Date night! On Friday, Khloe Kardashian decided to share her evening out with beau Tristan Thompson on Snapchat

The video starts with Khloe enjoying one of the app's filters, specifically the one that superimposes rabbit ears and nose on the user.

Khloe appears perfectly made-up, with a slick of shiny rose lipstick and prominent peach blush adorning her visage.

Her long locks were styled into two braids which fell down either side of her neck.

She accessorized with a large pair of aviator shades with a light tint and huge gold hoop earrings.

Cute: The video starts with Khloe enjoying one of the app's filters, specifically the one that superimposes rabbit ears and nose on the user

Bling bling! She accessorized with a large pair of aviator shades with a light tint, multiple crucifix necklaces and huge gold hoop earrings

Is that a llama? While it wasn't clear where the group was, Khloe had some fun applying filters to other friends around the dinner table

While it wasn't clear where the group was, Khloe had some fun applying filters to other friends around the dinner table.

A photo of a very full glass of wine then appears, with Khloe wondering aloud, 'is Tristan trying to get me drunk?'

In addition, she included a cheeky caption that read 'You're already getting some. Don't worry babe.'

Devious intentions? A photo of a very full glass of wine then appears, with Khloe wondering aloud, 'is Tristan trying to get me drunk?'

All smiles: She then turned the camera on Tristan, who was dressed in all white and also enjoying a glass of red wine

She then turned the camera on Tristan, who was dressed in all white and also enjoying a glass of red wine.

The 25-year-old NBA player looked like he was having a ball with his reality queen squeeze.

Finally, the video seems to skip ahead, and shows Khloe and Tristan riding in a car together, presumably after their meal.

Things turn slightly steamy however, when Tristan decides to nuzzle Khloe's neck while she's distracted with her camera.