The Britons in the addictive 'Dictionary of the Dead'
You could call it life's lottery or the democracy of death, but they are an eclectic bunch. Margaret Thatcher appears alongside wrestler Mick McManus and Great Train Robbers Bruce Reynolds and Ronnie Biggs.

Peter O'Toole, classical actor, is in the bag, as are the comic double-act Mike and Bernie Winters. Who else? Broadcasters David Jacobs and David Frost, six Nobel laureates, Leftie novelist Doris Lessing and Mel Smith, the TV star who died three years ago, aged just 60.

Also: racehorse trainer Henry Cecil, various scientists, conductor Sir Colin Davis, Reg 'Wild Thing' Presley of Sixties group The Troggs, and a Countess of Arran who had a penchant for powerboat racing and earned the soubriquet 'the fastest granny on water' when she roared across Windermere at 103mph.

The Oxford Dictionary of National Biography shows that you have arrived... once your gone

Margaret Thatcher, pictured, is one of the eclectic personality contained within the ODNB

Wrestler Mick McManus, pictured flying through the air is also in the reference book

These very different figures are among the 241 latest graduates to the Oxford Dictionary Of National Biography. You could say inclusion in the ODNB is confirmation that they have arrived, except it is the exact opposite in that they have departed — i.e. died — and thus became eligible for inclusion in the most engaging, unwieldy, indisputably British publication in the world.

The ODNB, written by 14,356 authors, contains potted biographies of 60,032 souls who have helped to shape these small, remarkable islands.

They range from back in the fog of pre-Roman days, to the latest cut-off point of 2013. Included in the dictionary's 72 million words are monarchs, murderers and mavericks, bishops and bankers, thespians, fakes, field marshals and more.

Astronomers Royal, papal legates, Chief Rabbis, Commanding Officers at Calais: all these are on parade, most accompanied by vivid essays with their dates, achievements (if any) and sometimes the size of their fortunes when they died.

But there is also room for a man such as Henry Moat (1871-1940), hippopotamus-shaped valet to the Sitwell family, who spoke Italian with a thick Yorkshire accent, drank heavily, had tempestuous fallings-out with his employers and never left the house without his bowler hat.

Henry Cecil, left, trainer of Frankel the wonder horse, right, is a recent inclusion

Compiling a dictionary of death (which is basically what this comprises) is like painting the Forth Bridge.

Even now the next batch of entries is in preparation, cooking slowly at Oxford University Press's editorial offices where the compilers — discreet assassins — are deciding which of the latest crop of well-known stiffs deserve inclusion.

Yet 'deserve' is maybe the wrong verb, for this is an archive which has become a mark not of merit or good character but of national notability.

Every time a new batch of names is announced, there is a minor kerfuffle. This year it has been no different.

Minority rights campaigners have complained there are only 350 black people, about 0.6 per cent of the total. There have been protests about an 'appalling lack of diversity' and 'black lives being airbrushed out of history'.

This is unfair because prominent black involvement in British public affairs was so limited until a few decades ago. The black percentage will grow but, given the rate at which the Grim Reaper works, it will take time. It is, however, a measure of the ODNB's place in our culture that such hoo-hahs erupt.

Margaret Thatcher has a larger obituary in the ODBN than Winston Churchill, pictured

There are more than 55,000 people inside the ODBN, but you have to be dead to be included. Queen Elizabeth, right, visited the Oxford University Press archive on May 5, 2006

This is more than a mere dictionary. It symbolises something bigger: public acceptance. To make it into the ODNB is to be memorialised, to receive the stamp not of approval but of permanence

The entry on Mrs Thatcher has created surprise in that it is so long. Its 33,648 words make it the third longest in the dictionary, behind Shakespeare (37,543) and Elizabeth I (35,557), just ahead of Sir Winston Churchill, Oliver Cromwell and Henry VIII.

The Thatcher entry was written by the dictionary's current editor, Sir David Cannadine, a flinty historian who could never be described as a gushing Conservative. His essay on Mrs T is balanced yet, at the same time, jauntily readable.

In addition to an extensive account of her political and parliamentary doings it passes comment on her looks — her 'elegant legs', her application of 'carmine lipstick in considerable quantities' — and such quirks as brushing lint off the jackets of her male Cabinet ministers.

The entry, with no little brio, catches some of the hysteria Mrs T stirred among both her admirers and detractors and it is a good example of how the ODNB is more than some dusty work of reference.

This verve — you could almost say this mischief — makes the ODNB a distracting narcotic. Once you dip in, it becomes addictive. I lost the best part of a day flitting from such biographees as Iron Age British resistance leader Caratacus — who was puzzled that the rich Roman invaders 'envied the British their poor huts' — to Mary Toft, an 18th-century Surrey illiterate of 'small stature, strong constitution and sullen nature'.

Karl Marx, pictured is included on the list despite being born in Prussia

She claimed to have given birth to numerous rabbits.

Why is this freak in the ODNB? Her claims to have popped bunnies from her human womb were brought to the attention of George I, who despatched his surgeon to examine her. The distinguished physicians of the day crouched round Mistress Toft's bed, awaiting the next litter of rabbits.

Oddly enough they never emerged. Shyness? Or was Mary Toft the perpetrator of a great medical hoax? What do you think?

The inventor of the public lavatory is in the dictionary: George Jennings (1810-1882), sanitary engineer, his entry full of good stuff about water seals, ceramic lips, rubber hosings and the fact that his house was awash, if that is the term, with terracotta ornaments.

I enjoyed reading about 'Boy Jones, born 1824, trespasser', son of an impoverished tailor, who kept breaking into Buckingham Palace when Queen Victoria was a young woman. He left his finger-marks in the kitchen, made himself at home on the Throne and slathered himself in a royal valet's bear-grease pomade before trying to escape via one of the chimneys. What a sooty mess that made.

The dictionary calls Jones 'a representative of self-help taken to its ludicrous extreme'. After his third raid on the Palace, when he was caught leaving with a handkerchief wrapped full of meat and potatoes, he completed another spell in chokey before retiring, like any self-respecting Palace burglar, to Perth, Western Australia.

William Joyce, left, better known as Lord Haw Haw was executed by Albert Pierrepoint, right, both of whom are among the 60,000 names included in the dictionary

This, therefore, is not a dictionary simply for Establishment worthies, 'the great and the good'.

Though it does contain many people who would qualify as such, it also embraces scalliwags, oddballs, celebrities and notorieties of the passing centuries.

Poor Jade Goody, the reality TV star who died so young — just 27 —in 2009, has an entry. Why? 'Anyone in the future who reads newspapers from the early 2000s is likely to find references to her,' explains Alex May, an ODNB senior researcher. 'They would want to find out about her.'

There is something refreshing and, for want of a better term, democratic about this. The memorable dead are a classless battalion. The Boy Jones was a well known personality in his day.

The old joke in newspaper obituary columns is that: 'People are dying to get on to our pages.' It is the same at the ODNB.

Every week, Dr May and his colleagues are contacted by individuals and families seeking to obtain an entry for themselves or some relation. People often submit their own suggested entries. Such efforts are politely rebuffed.

Are bribes offered? Dr May, a history don who has worked on the dictionary for 18 years, gives a dry cough and tactfully replies that 'our policy is not to accept bribes'.

George Best has an entry, as does skiffle star Lonnie Donegan, society magazine columnist (and raging snob) Betty Kenward, and the inventors of both Veno's cough mixture and Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce.

Prussian-born Karl Marx is in there, too, described as 'revolutionary and thinker'. He qualifies for this British dictionary because he lived for a while and died in London — the ODNB is not just about Britons, but about people who have had a connection with Britain.

Marx's entry, by the way, was written by Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm. Comrade Eric, like other ODNB contributors, received only a modest honorarium (currently £100) for his efforts.

You do not become rich writing for the ODNB, but you do have the comfort of knowing that your words will be read long after you have gone. Each author has his or her own style, but the dictionary aims for a 'dispassionate, Olympian tone' and on the whole this is achieved.

Its editor Prof Cannadine explains how the dictionary's entrants are selected: 'We rely on some 500 advisers organised into around 45 occupational panels such as politics, medicine, sport, chemistry, zoology, etc.

'We send them huge lists of people from their areas who died in a particular year and ask them to grade the subjects (from 'must go in' to 'definitely not') and, where possible, give their reasons.'

Having that many advisers reduces the chance of missing an obvious biographee and means personal vendettas — not unknown in academia — are diluted.

The brilliance or decency of a person is of no concern in the process of selection, though that may be addressed in the entry itself.

The ODNB exists as a hall of both fame and infamy. Moors killer Myra Hindley is in there, as is 'West, Frederick Walter Stephen, 1941-1995, murderer'. We are told that West was 'a dirty, scruffy and deceitful child who never learned to spell'.

How refreshing to read a work of reference that takes the blow-torch to people's characters. The entry also notes the 'sadistic ferocity and erotic compulsions' of West's wife, Rose.

There is no shilly-shallying here, none of the equivocations of professional sociologists. It may be rigorously objective in its politics, but the ODNB does have a moral core. It knows its words will stand as a judgment for time.

Inclusion in the dictionary is not a question of taste. It is whether or not someone was noteworthy — whether or not future historians want to know who these figures were.

The dictionary dates back to the 1880s, when its original edition of 63 bound volumes started to appear (the dictionary is now online, and can be read free at most public libraries or via private subscription).

That first edition's completion at the turn of the 20th century was a cause for national celebration, as it had beaten similar publications in rival countries.

So great was the jubilation that Edward VII spoke at a banquet to mark the achievement. Yet the dictionary has never been a government project; hence its outspoken editorial flavour. A state-run dictionary would soon become blandly politically correct.

The first editor, Leslie Stephen, quickly found that he earned the enmity of certain readers. He also complained about 'the insane verbosity of the average writer', and even today certain entries could do with judicious filleting.

Queen Victoria's entry was originally 100,000 words long, but over the years this has been scythed back to some 20,000.

Entries are kept under review and may be rewritten. Jimmy Savile's underwent substantial surgery after the extent of his child molestation became evident and at the very top of his entry he is now described as 'disc jockey, broadcaster and sexual predator'.

'In many respects, his whole life and persona were deceptions,' is the dictionary's withering conclusion.

Not all bad apples are judged so fiercely. The newly inserted entry of Great Train robber Ronnie Biggs ('criminal and fugitive') sketches him as 'a gregarious, charming rogue who capitalised on a quirk of the British psyche that admires the rascal who tweaks the lion's tail'.

The entry of former Daily Mirror owner Robert Maxwell ('publisher and swindler') catches something of the chaotic garishness in Maxwell's fraudulent tendencies — the way he drank from a bowl-sized coffee cup marked 'I'M A VERY IMPORTANT PERSON' and his weakness for self-serving sentimentalism.

The entry on astronomer Patrick Moore hints, albeit sympathetically, that he was gay. A new entry on trumpeter Kenny Ball expresses quiet anger this popular virtuoso and generous supporter of charities, 'unaccountably received no public honours'.

Of Richard Seifert, one of those architects whose angular buildings so altered the face of post-war London, the ODNB does not hesitate to say his designs are unlikely to endure in the public affection.

This art of distilling character and melding it with factual biographical detail and occasionally salty editorial comment may not simply be a current British literary strength; it may also reflect something of our close-quartered body politic.

Even today, we are a smallish society with a proud tradition of 'warts and all' (to quote Cromwell) social observation.

A few other countries — Australia and New Zealand among them — have national dictionaries of biography, but the Oxford version is some way ahead of the field in its exuberance and flair. The ODNB tells our island story and it does so with masterly British aplomb.