The Best Pop Culture Picks for Post-Election Detox
Are you having an election hangover? You're not the only one.

Whether you're ecstatic or devastated by the result of the presidential election, you may need a bit of a reprieve. Here's a rundown of the pop culture goodies that could help distract you and/or provide some non-political water cooler chatter:

Take a flight of fantasy or have a good cry

The biggest movie opening this weekend is "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them," the much-anticipated prequel to the "Harry Potter" series. The film, starring Oscar winner Eddie Redmayne, takes place decades before the iconic boy wizard was born. It also marks J.K. Rowling's screenwriting debut.

If you're looking for more adult fare, one of the best reviewed films of the year — Kenneth Lonergan's "Manchester By the Sea" — also opens in select cities this weekend. The family drama is being hailed as an emotional tour de force and a likely Oscar contender. And if you aren't near an indie theater, never fear: "Manchester" will be available on Amazon Prime soon enough.

For those in need of a nostalgia fix

After an 18-year hiatus and the recent death of one of its members, Phife Dawg, the iconic hip-hop group A Tribe Called Quest is back with a brand new acclaimed album "We Got It From Here ... Thank You 4 Your Service." These guys are worth a listen since their influence can be heard all over the current pop charts — and even if you think you're not a fan of hip-hop, this is one act whose musicianship and appreciation for classic jazz beats should appeal to audiences of all stripes. If their recent performance on "Saturday Night Live" is any indication, these veterans have not lost a step since their last album.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Google Plus

Embed Thandie Newton: Being nude on 'Westworld' is liberating 4:21 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

In the mood for robotic beats, or just a robotic beatdown ...

The American Music Awards on Sunday will feature performances by Bruno Mars, Ariana Grande, Nicki Minaj, Justin Bieber and many more. Unlike the more stodgy Grammys, the AMA winners are chosen solely by the fans — which means the results are little more reflective of what the public is actually listening to.

And if awards shows aren't your cup of tea, it's not too late to get caught up on HBO's brooding breakout hit "Westworld," where robots and tourists clash in futuristic Wild West-set theme park. Sounds complicated, right? Check out the "Sweetwater Saloon" and "Violent Delights" podcasts for a primer.

Who said a history lesson can't be hilarious?

Curmudgeonly stand-up comic Colin Quinn is back with a stand-up special directed by Jerry Seinfeld, which debuts on Netflix on Friday. Quinn, a Brooklyn native, delivers his own acerbic version of the cultural history of the Big Apple. "You have to remember that all the people that came here, came here because they were miserable wherever they were," he quips. No community is left unscathed. The proudly politically incorrect Quinn wouldn't have it any other way.

Want to get 'woke'? Curl up with a good 'Sellout'

Paul Beatty's satirical novel about a black man who helps to reconstitute slavery and segregation in modern-day Los Angeles has been called one of the most "difficult" works of the decade. But it must do something right since it's become the first book ever written by an American to take home the prestigious Booker prize for literature. If nothing else, the acclaimed novel's sophisticated take on race in America could make for some interesting Thanksgiving dinner conversation.