First Ladies' Inaugural Ball Gowns Through the Years Video
Transcript for First Ladies' Inaugural Ball Gowns Through the Years

Seem like frivolous time. First lady's inaugural gown is no mere party dress in this tradition of the inaugural as the inaugural. The moment it's revealed every di tale is dissected the cuts the color. The cost held up to critique. There is a message behind fashion you know it is a drastic but also says a lot about who they are what the personalities. And I think in not one moment. The sort of summarizes. What I'm are persons about. If that's not enough pressure there's more. I like all of my wife presence but particularly that's when and I went shape finishes with that you get it at the Smithsonian. It is addressed that will stand in the National Museum of American History. So you want to have something that will represent you for the rest of time for all of the world say. Lisa Kathleen ratty as the curator of the Smithsonian's first lady's exhibit with gallons unlike time capsules. You go everywhere from the very eighties shoulders of Barbara Bush is now. To Mamie Eisenhower's. Traditional ball down with a sleeveless. Roslyn Carter famously and frugally read war and all the run down. Limited daylight analyze Obama's. We use leader. Nancy Reagan ushered in a more formal white house with her white ones lead James gallon was down. Estimated worth 101000 dollars into it was a Hollywood actress you know she knew how to make an. She knew about red carpets. Fashion icon Jacqueline Kennedy helped design her own white sleeve issued phone. M Kennedy on the First Lady adventure from the White House. You attend a round of no less than buying gala inaugural ball. First ladies traditionally choose American designers Hillary Clinton discover her designer and an Arkansas boutique. Bush selected a fellow Texan. For. My life. In 2009 Michelle Obama prove the fashion. Virtuous of the rising talent ige is sinking 26 year old designer named Jason who no. You mean that literally put his name on the map over night. It's Newman Lanier trumps moment in history. Her gowns placed behind Glantz a leaks it's always an exciting moment for us anything you can. It's like if he's there in administration.

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.