A Return to Guadeloupe: Tropical Life, French-Style
After, we visited the main pedestrian walk in the town center, where around noon on Saturdays there is live Gwo Ka music, a folk genre featuring drumming and call-and-response singing by professional performers.

Because of a long-held interest in textiles, I had become enamored with the many patterns and vivid colors of cotton madras fabric. We happened upon an intriguing shop, Chez Tatie, which offers a selection of clothing and headpieces, and 54-inch-wide madras fabric in an array of colors.

We returned one evening to Grande-Terre and spent it in Le Gosier, a lively town that holds a Friday night market from 5 to 10 on the main street, Rue Principale. Rambunctious teenagers mixed with strolling couples in a carnival-like setting. Bright lights illuminated stalls at the edge of the market displaying handicrafts like coconut-shell bowls, earrings and flavored-rum punch. Elsewhere, vendors presided over tables loaded with bulbous pumpkins, speckled watermelons, wild greens, homemade medications, dried spices, curls of cinnamon bark and vanilla beans.

At the popular D’Lice restaurant opposite the market, we sampled the street food bokit, a greasy but satisfying deep-fried sandwich filled with shredded chicken, cheese, salad and a spicy vinegar-based sauce.

We ended our vacation on a French note: with an overnight trip to Les Saintes, an archipelago of seven islets and two inhabited islands eight and a half miles off Basse-Terre. The shipping line CTM Deher offers numerous daily crossings that take 15 minutes to the main island, Terre-de-Haut, from the ferry terminal at Trois-Rivières.

Photo

We boarded a boat at 9 a.m. in the company of several hundred French tourists, mostly day-trippers, their bare arms and legs lacquered with suntan oil. As the boat accelerated, churning up sea spray (and, accordingly, dousing everybody) passengers shrieked like exhilarated children on a roller coaster.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Terre-de-Haut Island evokes the quintessential French fishing village. Sun-washed, pastel-colored houses and cafes line the main pedestrian street running parallel to the sparkling turquoise harbor, dotted with moored sailboats.

We stayed up the hill from town at Les Petits Saints hotel, a romantic and whimsical property with wooden Balinese elephant sculptures, brightly painted interiors, artfully draped mosquito nets and a pool set in a lush garden overlooking Les Saintes Bay. We dined on grilled fish with salad, and finished with vanilla ice cream layered with warm chocolate sauce.

Instead of the motor scooters that most visitors rent, we opted to walk, for a more leisurely experience. Near town, the beautiful Plage de Grand Anse, facing the Atlantic, is unsafe for swimming because of riptides, but it is a wonderful place for sitting on silvery driftwood. A 45- to 60-minute walk to the powdery Pain de Sucre beach traverses steep, hilly terrain, where grazing goats are your only companions.

By chance, we saved the best for last. It was lunch at Au Bon Vivre restaurant on the main street, Rue Calot, where the owner and chef Vincent Malbec, of Toulouse, France, combines classical French techniques with local ingredients.

Photo

Sitting on a shady terrace sipping a white wine from the Loire Valley, we enjoyed an appetizer of tuna rillettes, smoked marlin and tiny cubes of raw mahi mahi marinated in coconut milk, scallions and Scotch bonnet chiles, followed by rare tuna with a slab of melting foie gras. Next came roasted duck breast with a passion fruit and balsamic vinegar glaze. Dessert was crème brûlée, passion fruit mousse and a profiterole topped with chocolate sauce.

As we savored the meal, even as the reek of an after-lunch Gauloise cigarette wafted from the next table, my mind drifted to our first trip, when we were young parents delighting in our little girl’s getting a taste of island life. Guadeloupe still offered sustenance and a joyful, French tropical approach to life. Perhaps it was even better the second time around.

IF YOU GO

Norwegian Air offers low-price direct flights from New York, Boston, Baltimore/Washington and Fort Lauderdale to Pointe-à-Pitre, Guadeloupe. One-way prices start at $49. The service is seasonal and ends in late April. (norwegian.com/us)

WHAT TO DO

Habitation La Grivelière is a restored 17th-century coffee plantation with an excellent tour and small gift shop. Admission with a guided tour is 7.50 euros (about $7.85), with a guided tour and a three-course meal is 24 euros. Vallée de la Grand Rivière, Vieux-Habitants, 590-590-98-63-06; habitationlagriveliere.com

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mémorial ACTe is a museum complex dedicated to the memory of enslaved peoples around the world. Admission, which includes an audio headset, is 15 euros; less for seniors and children. Darboussier, Rue Raspail, Pointe-à-Pitre, 590-590-25-16-00; memorial-acte.fr

Photo

Jardin Botanique de Deshaies is a restful haven with a fine restaurant. Admission is 15.90 euros for adults. Villers, Deshaies, 590-590-28-43-02; jardin-botanique.com

Chez Tatie Mercerie sells fabric, notions, and lots of madras clothing and fabric. 8 – 10 Rue Barbès, Pointe-à-Pitre, 590-82-10-67; facebook.com/cheztatiemercerie.fr

CTM Deher offers multiple daily departures on high-speed boats to Terre-au-Haut, Les Saintes from Trois-Rivières. Round trip is 23 euros. Ferry terminal, Chemin Départemental No. 7 dit Bord de Mer, Trois-Rivières. 590-590-92-06-39; ctmdeher.com

WHERE TO STAY

Le Jardin Malanga Hotel in Trois-Rivières has two double bedrooms and three triple bedrooms in its renovated main house, a 1927 restored plantation house, and three cottages with two bedrooms each. It has excellent table d’hôte dinners for hotel guests, a lush tropical garden, great views and a lovely pool. Double rooms from about $280, including a French-Guadeloupean breakfast. Route de L’Hermitage, Trois-Rivières. 590-590-92-67-57 or 33-1-42-56-46-98; jardinmalanga.com

Les Petits Saints Hotel on Terre-de-Haut, Les Saintes, has 10 rooms and features a breezy covered terrace restaurant with Creole food. Rooms from 136 euros, including breakfast. La Savane, Terre-de-Haut Island, Les Saintes, 590-590-99-50-99; petitssaints.com

WHERE TO EAT

Chez Sylvie is a tiny, reasonably-priced restaurant specializing in Creole seafood. In a beachfront setting, it can be hard to find but look for the Tourist Office on Malendure Beach, close to the restaurant. Plage de Malendure, Bouillante, 590-590-26-26-17; www.guadeloupe-islands.com/chez-sylvie

Au Bon Vivre features outstanding French-Guadeloupean food, with set-price meals starting at 22 euros. 31 Rue Calot, Terre-de-Haut, Les Saintes, 590-590-94-19-84; aubonvivre.com