Lois Dickson Rice, Trailblazing Executive Behind Pell Grants, Dies at 83
Photo

Lois Dickson Rice, a janitor’s daughter who became a trailblazing corporate executive and helped persuade Congress to provide federal subsidies, known as Pell grants, to tens of millions of needy college students, died on Jan. 4 in Washington. She was 83.

The cause was pneumonia and cancer, her daughter, Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser to President Obama, said.

In the business world, Lois Rice was a director on several major company boards, including those of Firestone, McGraw-Hill and the Control Data Corporation, the supercomputer manufacturer. She was also a senior vice president of Control Data.

She joined the College Entrance Examination Board (now known as the College Board) in 1959. As an executive there, she promoted and helped shape the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program, whose chief sponsor was Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island.

The program, begun in 1972, awards grants rather than loans, mostly to undergraduates, on the basis of financial need. (A grant is designed to fill the gap between the cost of college and the family’s estimated contribution. This academic year, the maximum grant is $5,815.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Rice continued to promote the program as director of the board’s Washington office and as its national vice president from 1973 to 1981.

Mr. Pell died in 2009. His grandson Clay Pell IV, a former deputy assistant secretary of the Education Department, said in a statement after Ms. Rice’s death, “This program was not inevitable, and it would not have come into existence without her, nor survived in the decades since without her passionate advocacy.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Lois Anne Dickson was born on Feb. 28, 1933, in Portland, Me., the daughter of David Augustus Dickson and the former Mary Daly. Her father was a janitor at a music store; her mother was a maid. Both were Jamaican immigrants who sent all five of their children to college.

She graduated in 1954 from Radcliffe College, where she majored in history and literature and was president of the student body.

Her marriage to Emmett J. Rice, an economist and a governor of the Federal Reserve, ended in divorce. In addition to her daughter, from that marriage, she is survived by a son, E. John Rice Jr., the chief executive of Management Leadership for Tomorrow; four stepchildren; and four grandchildren. Dr. Rice died in 2011.

Ms. Rice later married Alfred B. Fitt, general counsel of the Congressional Budget Office and of the Army. He died in 1992.

Since 1991, Ms. Rice had been a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution in Washington, researching higher-education policy and promoting racial diversity. Last June, she and Susan Rice, a former Brookings senior fellow, were honored as the only mother-daughter research duo in the think tank’s history.

“Lois was a giant in the field of education,” Arne Duncan, the former secretary of education, said in a statement. “For so many of us, she was a hero, a role model and an example of what true service is all about. She helped create a pathway to college for literally millions of low-income and first-generation college goers, changing the trajectories of their families forever.”