Betsy DeVos Won’t Shed Stake in Biofeedback Company, Filings Show
Ms. DeVos and her husband promote Neurocore heavily on the website for Windquest Group, a family office the couple use to manage some of their many investments. The website, for instance, includes a link to a Washington Post article about Kirk Cousins, a Washington Redskins quarterback who describes how he “retrained” his brain to better perform on the field by going to a Neurocore center.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the claims that Neurocore’s methods can help children improve their performance in school could present a conflict for Ms. DeVos if she is confirmed as education secretary — especially given that the company is moving to expand its national reach.

Neurocore, founded about a decade ago, operates seven of the brain performance centers in Michigan and recently opened two in Florida. It has said it has plans to open as many as seven other centers across the country this year. Ms. DeVos’s financial disclosure shows that she and her husband have an indirect interest in the company through a family partnership.

Richard W. Painter, a White House ethics adviser under President George W. Bush, said he was familiar with Neurocore and applauded the business and education concepts behind it — but he said the DeVoses would be better off selling their interests in the company.

“This is not an appropriate investment for the secretary of education,” Mr. Painter said in an email. “How schools respond to attention issues is a vitally important policy question and ties right into achievement. In my view, there should be support, including financial support, for alternatives to A.D.H.D. drug treatments that are covered by health insurance whereas alternatives often are not covered.”

He added, “The secretary would be barred from participating in that important policy decision if she or her husband owned an interest in this company.”

Ms. DeVos has drawn criticism from some Democrats and public education supporters because she has been an outspoken critic of public schools and supports charter schools as an alternative. In Michigan, she and her husband have been active in promoting charter schools.

She caused a stir this week at her confirmation hearing, which took place before the Office of Government Ethics had released her financial disclosure form, when she said that some schools might want to keep guns on hand to deal with possible grizzly bear attacks. She also did not seem to be familiar with a federal law that requires equal treatment for children with disabilities.

In her agreement with the ethics office, Ms. DeVos said she would “not participate personally and substantially in any particular matter” that could benefit Neurocore and seven family businesses in which she would continue to have a financial interest.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. DeVos’s financial holdings may be the most complex by any of Mr. Trump’s cabinet nominees. At 108 pages, her financial disclosure form is longer than the one Mr. Trump himself filed last year.

She and her husband, according to the disclosure filing, have $583 million to $1.5 billion in assets.

The size of the family’s wealth is no surprise. Mr. DeVos’s father founded Amway, a multilevel marketing firm that specializes in selling health and beauty aids and had over $9 billion in sales in 2015. Richard DeVos Sr. is the 88th-richest person in the world, according to Forbes magazine.

The DeVoses’ financial holdings include a minority stake in Major League Baseball’s Chicago Cubs and an interest in the N.B.A.’s Orlando Magic, as well as an array of private equity firms and real estate entities.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In her filing, Ms. DeVos said she also had a financial interest in Theranos, the embattled blood-testing firm that was once a darling of Silicon Valley but was forced to close its laboratories and lay off 40 percent of its workers after a series of articles in The Wall Street Journal raised questions about its technology.

Ms. DeVos, in her filing, said that within 90 days of being confirmed, she would divest herself of her financial interest in 102 companies and investment funds.

Neurocore, however, appears to be an investment that Ms. DeVos and her husband have a particular interest in.

The company’s website claims impressive outcomes: for example, that 90 percent of people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder report improvement and 76 percent “achieve a nonclinical status.” But Neurocore has not published results in the peer-reviewed literature.

A year ago, the company hired Dr. Majid Fotuhi, a physician and neuroscientist trained at Harvard and Johns Hopkins University, as its chief medical officer. He said Neurocore had recently begun analyzing its data and results would be published soon in a scientific journal.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dr. Fotuhi said that Neurocore had no immediate plans to team up with schools but that he could envision that happening.

“Betsy DeVos really believes in improving brain performance and helping children who have syndromes such as attention deficit disorder,” he said.

An article in September in West Michigan Business News & Information about Neurocore’s expansion plans said the DeVoses’ family office, Windquest Group, was the company’s main financial backer. In the article, Mark Murrison, Neurocore’s chief executive, said, “We’re a local company with sights on national expansion.”

On its website, Neurocore claims to use “data-driven, brain-based diagnostics and treatments” to help children and adults. The company says it uses “data from quantitative electroencephalography” to help diagnose problems and then treats them with “proven neurofeedback therapy.”

Neurocore, which charges about $2,000 for a recommended treatment of 30 sessions, has a deal with Prosper Funding, an online lending platform, to provide financing to clients. Neurocore also says that some insurance plans may cover treatments.

But in 2015, the Michigan State Department of Insurance and Financial Services upheld a denial of coverage determination by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan for a person who had sought treatment from Neurocore for migraine headaches. The insurer had denied coverage, saying the “treatment was investigational.”

In its marketing materials, Neurocore makes a direct pitch to parents, featuring the personal stories of numerous children in YouTube videos and offering tips on Twitter about helping students focus at school.

On Friday, Neurocore posted a typical tweet — “Do you suspect your child may have teen ADHD? Check out these common signs” — with a link to its website and a photo of a student at his desk.

Not all experts are convinced of the effectiveness of Neurocore’s methods. A 2013 article in The Detroit News questioned the efficacy of diagnostic testing for A.D.H.D. through electroencephalography, citing an article in the American Academy of Pediatrics News that suggested more research was needed.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, Dr. Fotuhi expressed confidence in the field. “It’s in its infancy,” he said, “but I can envision in the coming years, we’ll have objective data.”