‘How Ya Holding Up?’
Photo

SATURDAY PUZZLE — It’s not often that a crossword puzzle both checks in with you on how you’re doing (FEEL O.K.?) and backhands you with a quasi-insult (I HOPE YOU’RE HAPPY), but for my money, it’s at least proof that it cares. You can also tell because it has KIND EYES.

James Mulhern’s Saturday puzzle was tough to break into, but once I had about a third of it done, the rest fell pretty easily for me. And the reward for sticking with it was seeing the debut of terrific fill like CATLIKE REFLEXES, I HOPE YOU’RE HAPPY and KIND EYES. I might not have known EDESSA, but in return, I got to snicker at the entry CHEEPS for the clue “What small cranes may produce” and ponder the fact that we live in an era where a relatively recent and succinct phrase like NOT EVEN can be seen in The New York Times Crossword.

Tricky Clues

■ 9A: Wordplay alert! Were you fooled into thinking that the word “Pacific” meant something that actually happens in the Pacific region? Not today. Today, it means having pacifist leanings, and the answer is SIT-INS.

■ 60A: Oh my, Mr. Mulhern and the editors are raising the temperature in here. The Marquis DE SADE is the one who wrote “Lust’s passion will be served; it demands, it militates, it tyrannizes.” Who says crossword puzzles are boring?

■ 1D: On the first pass, I wasn’t sure whether to read “Camp” in “Camp classic” as in the kind of camp you attend in the summer or as in “campy.” It turns out that it’s the summer camp, singing around the campfire kind, and the answer is KUMBAYA.

■ 53D: Here’s a trick for those clues that end in “e.g.” Think in terms of synonyms for the word before the “e.g.” So for “Midnight,” instead of thinking about time, think of something that “Midnight” is a type of; it’s also a color, and it’s a type of BLUE.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Constructor’s Notes

I made this puzzle way back in December 2014, so I don’t remember too much about the construction process. I do remember building out the upper-left corner and being pretty appalled by the Tetris-style arrangement of black squares, but going with it because I thought the fill was worth it. I actually had some back and forth with Will and Joel about KIND EYES in the southeast. I had seeded the corner with that entry, but they initially asked me to rework things to eliminate it. I wrote an impassioned, 300-word email to defend the answer, and they agreed to run it. I’m glad they did ... I hope solvers agree!

Your thoughts?