D.C.-area forecast: A break in the rain today, but odds are up tonight and especially by Sunday
TODAY’S DAILY DIGIT

A somewhat subjective rating of the day’s weather, on a scale of 0 to 10.

7/10: A mild and calm window in an active weather pattern. Better than Friday

EXPRESS FORECAST

Today: Mostly cloudy. Highs: Mid-50s to near 60.

Tonight: Occasional light showers possible. Lows: Mid-40s to near 50.

Tomorrow: Periods of rain, especially late. Turning windy. Highs: 50s.

View weather conditions at The Washington Post headquarters.

FORECAST IN DETAIL

We’ve got a break in the weather action today. It just doesn’t last long. Another storm system approaches the area through the day and into tomorrow. It’ll be a slow-mover, which means it could end up dropping some areas of significant rainfall. The weather is mostly looking gloomy, at least through the early part of the week. Still no cold air around, though.

Today (Saturday): Other than a diminishing risk of fog and drizzle early this morning, skies remain largely cloud filled. It’s possible we see some longer breaks of sun, just don’t bet too heavily on that. The daytime period should be dry, as highs range between the mid-50s and near 60. Winds are from the south around 5 to 10 mph. Confidence: Medium-High

Tonight: There’s an elevated risk of some showers during the evening into the overnight. I think any of this is rather sporadic and light if it happens. There’s some chance it won’t come together. Check in later today on that for the latest trends. Lows are mainly in the mid-40s to near 50. Confidence: Medium

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest updates. For related traffic news, check out Dr. Gridlock. Keep reading for the forecast through the weekend …

Tomorrow (Sunday): Rain is likely. The morning may still feature more of a showery-type rain. With time, we get into a steadier moderate to occasionally heavy rain. Winds become gustier, too, with the low pressure slowly approaching from the south and southwest. Highs are in the 50s. Confidence: Medium

Tomorrow night: Periodic rain remains a good bet through the night, and some could be heavy. Still gusty as well, with lows settling to around 50. Confidence: Medium

A LOOK AHEAD

Intermittent rainfall continues into Monday as the storm system moves into the local region and slows down. I’d think the heaviest of the rain is during the first-half of the day or so, with diminishing activity late. But it’s a slow process to get this thing out of here. Winds are gusty, as well. Highs head to near 60 unless the storm is faster, in which case they probably get stuck in the 50s. Confidence: Medium

A shower could last into early Tuesday, but the general trend is finally in a better direction with the weather. That storm is heading to the northeast, so winds die off with time. We might even see some breaks in the clouds late in the day. Highs are around 60. Confidence: Medium