The Latest: Girl pulled from avalanche hotel, wants cookie
FARINDOLA, Italy (AP) — The Latest on the avalanche that buried a hotel in central Italy (all times local):

9:50 p.m.

A six-year-old girl has been rescued from a hotel devastated by an avalanche in Italy. After two days under tons of snow, what does she want? A cookie.

Family friend Quintino Marcella said he spoke to Ludovica Parete by phone as she was being transported to the hospital Friday evening in the Italian city of Pescara. He says "she is OK. She asked for Ringos." That's a round, two-sided chocolate-and-vanilla cookie popular with Italian children.

Ludovica's entire family survived Wednesday's avalanche that swept through the Hotel Rigopiano, a resort in the Apennine mountains.

Her dad, Giampiero Parete, happened to be outside the hotel when the avalanche struck and called for help. His wife, Adriana, and son Gianfilippo, 8, were rescued earlier on Friday. The children's mother then implored rescuers to find Ludovica — and they did, bringing her out in apparently good condition.

___

9:15 p.m.

Relatives of those still missing in the avalanche-hit hotel in central Italy have been gathering anxiously at the hospital in Pescara, the closest city to the accident site, eagerly awaiting word of their loved ones.

Authorities have been pulling survivors out of the hotel and sending them to this hospital.

Melissa Riccardo says "I just hope that my niece and her boyfriend will make it out of there."

A few relatives erupted in frustration at a Friday evening press conference, saying they had received no information.

Domenico Angelozzi, who is awaiting news of his sister and brother-in-law, says " the only news I have has been from the internet."

The hospital responded that it would only release information about those admitted. The Pescara prefect later came to meet with relatives to soothe frustrations.

___

8:25 p.m.

Italy's civil protection chief says five of the 10 people found alive inside an avalanche-covered hotel have been pulled out and that rescue crews are working to get the other five to safety.

Chief Fabrizio Curcio said four of the five extracted alive were children, suggesting that all the children in the hotel at the time of Wednesday's avalanche were accounted for.

One of the boys who was rescued has been identified: 8-year-old Gianfilippo Parete, who emerged from the structure along with his mother, Adriana Vranceanu, 43.

His father, Giampiero Parete, had sounded the alarm about the avalanche, begging his boss to rally rescue crews. He had walked to the car just minutes before the avalanche struck the hotel.

As Vranceanu emerged she pointed back inside, apparently giving rescue workers directions on how to find her 6-year-old daughter, Ludovica.

___

5:30 p.m.

An Italian man has been joyfully reunited with his wife and son after those two were rescued from hotel buried by an avalanche.

Giampiero Parete had been spared Wednesday's avalanche because it had struck when he was out getting medicine in his car for wife, Adriana. She and son Gianfilippo, 8, were safely extracted from the snow-covered debris on Friday.

Rescuers said the mother indicated her 6-year-old daughter Ludovica was also alive amid the debris nearby and rescue workers immediately set to work to find her, too.

Italian media said Parete and wife and son hugged at Pescara hospital, where the woman and child were taken, apparently in good condition.

He had sounded the alarm with telephone calls after the avalanche struck hours after the area was rocked by strong earthquakes.

___

5:05 p.m.

Firefighter spokesman Luca Cari said so far 10 people have been found alive in the debris of the avalanche-struck Hotel Rigopiano in central Italy.

Cari gave the update late Friday afternoon as rescue workers continued trying to extract survivors from the collapsed buildings of the resort northeast of Rome.

Helicopters were ferrying the survivors to a hospital in Pescara on the Adriatic coast.

Rescuers say four bodies have been found at the since the avalanche struck Wednesday afternoon.

___

3:15 p.m.

An Italian firefighter says rescue crews have indications of other survivors under the rubble of avalanche-struck hotel in central Italy.

A first group of between six or eight survivors were located by rescuers earlier Friday. They had found an air pocket in the kitchen of the crushed Hotel Rigopiano in Italy's snow-covered Abruzzo region.