Images capture reality of life on a dirt bike in New York
Incredible images capture reality of life on a dirt bike in New York City as police vow to crackdown on the 'menace.'

Dirt biker David Delgado, 40, a Bronx photographer, has noticed a growing number of bikers gathering in his borough for the past seven years.

But unlike the city's weekend riders - the city boys and bankers who just want a taste of the road on the back of a $30,000 Harley - the dirt bikers are underground.

Incredible images capture reality of life on a dirt bike in New York City (packs of dirt bike riders gather in the Bronx for daring stunts)

Unlike the city's weekend riders - the city boys and bankers who just want a taste of the road on the back of a $30,000 Harley - the dirt bikers are underground (Two riders take a break during a night ride out)

Gangs have 'no regard for the law, no respect for police, and they really live it,' Delgado said (A member of Harlem Legends stands watch on top of his bike for cops)

Gangs of bikers can often be seen riding around the Bronx, flouting the law, performing dangerous stunts, and showing off for their friends

'They have no regard for the law, no respect for police, and they really live it,' Delgado told the New York Times. 'We used to get chased, but we still had licenses and insurance. These guys ride with no helmets, licenses, insurance, anything.'

Gangs of bikers can often be seen riding around the Bronx, flouting the law, performing dangerous stunts, and showing off for their friends.

'The riders, who call their loose movement 'bike life,' also drive four-wheel all-terrain vehicles, and focus more on group solidarity than on competition. 'A guy gets killed and guys will say, 'That's bike life.'

But 'bike life' is becoming increasingly difficult in the city.

A pack of Bike Life riders take over a gas station to refuel before crossing the 145th street bridge into Harlem

Young rider Little Peanut (center) poses for a picture among fellow riders in the Bronx, New York

Little Ben and Moreno keep and eye on a NYPD patrol car as they drive by - police have threatened to crack down in riders

Dennis poses with his bike Success under a bridge prior to a ride out as 'bike life' becomes increasingly difficult in the city

Last year, fed up with the noise, pollution and traffic, the NYPD announced it was waging war on bikers.

Since then, police have made hundreds of arrests and seized more than 600 bikes - destroying many of them.

'We want to send out a very strong message to the nitwits and knuckleheads who insist on operating these illegal vehicles on the streets, sidewalks, parks, and housing developments of the city of New York, creating extraordinary danger not only for themselves but more importantly for the public,' said Police Commissioner Bill Bratton after sending bikes to the crusher last fall. 'These bikes & riders are a menace.'

Bratton said seizures of the illegal vehicles - which he called 'a plague on the city' were up 96 percent from 2015 while the Bronx saw the most confiscations with more than 180 last year.

Last year, fed up with the noise, pollution and traffic, the NYPD announced it was waging war on bikers (A pack of riders take over the two Manhattan bound lanes of the Bruckner Expressway)

A couple on a Yamaha Banshee perform a wheely a night ride out at Hunts Point, in New York

A$AP TyY of the Hip-Hop collective, A$AP MOB, poses on top of his bike as he waits for a pack to form

But while their way of life is under threat in New York from police, it will take more than a few confiscations to rid the city of the 'menace' which can also be found in cities across Europe

Chief of Patrol Carlos Gomez added that groups of the bikers 'can be very intimidating' and projects 'a sense of lawlessness in our city.'

Delgado said that he has seen 'packs' of bikers riding in 'ride outs' in anything from groups of three to a couple hundred.

But while their way of life is under threat in New York from police, it will take more than a few confiscations to rid the city of the 'menace' which can also be found in cities across Europe.

'It's about being a brotherhood,' Delgado said. 'These guys wouldn't be friends if it weren't for bike life. In the same pack, some of them are Bloods, some are Crips, and some are white kids from Connecticut, all come to the Bronx.'

Brian along with family members visit Fat Boy's grave site on the eve of the anniversary of his death

Pedestrians in the Bronx look on as riders perform stunts for their audience