Joshua Kushner was spotted at the Women's March
Jared Kushner's younger brother Joshua was spotted at the Women's March on Washington on Saturday.

Washingtonian editor Jessica Sidman tweeted his photo, saying 'Oh hey, it's Jared Kushner's brother'.

Kushner and his long-term model girlfriend Karlie Kloss both voted for Hillary Clinton, reported New York Magazine, but his sighting at an explicitly anti-Trump event might be surprising to some, especially so soon after the controversial appointment of his brother to serve on Trump's administration.

But Kloss did not appear to have made the trip to DC with Kushner, with the model spotted looking fashionable on the streets of Manhattan instead.

Scroll down for video

The Washingtonian editor Jessica Sidman tweeted his photo, saying 'Oh hey, it's Jared Kushner's brother'

She also tweeted that another marcher asked if he was related to Jared Kushner, and he said said yes, claiming he was just observing

Kloss did not appear to have made the trip to DC with Kushner, with the model spotted looking fashionable on the streets of Manhattan instead

The 24-year-old supermodel was seen wearing an eye-catching blue striped dress and fur coat in New York running errands.

Sidman also tweeted that another marcher asked if he was related to Jared Kushner, and he said said yes, claiming he was just observing the march.

The Justice Department announced on Friday that Kushner would be allowed to serve as a White House adviser, despite a federal anti-nepotism law.

They determined that the White House is not an 'executive agency' and is therefore exempt from restrictions on hiring in a 1967 law.

'In choosing his personal staff, the President enjoys an unusual degree of freedom, which Congress found suitable to the demands of his office,' the document claims.

The president's son-in-law will have to divest himself of holdings that are considered a conflict of interest and fill out a financial disclosure form. And he will be unable to take actions that could benefit his businesses of that of his wife, Ivanka.

Kushner and his long-term girlfriend Karlie Kloss both voted for Hillary Clinton in the November election

Pictured here with the family is Joshua Kushner's girlfriend Karlie Kloss. Though Kloss and Kushner both voted for Hillary, Kushner has not come out in opposition of his brother's place in the Trump administration

Ivanka Trump and her husband worked closely with Trump's campaign, and will play important roles during the President's time in the White House.

However, Kushner's family has a complicated political presence, prompting questions to his ties to the Trump presidency.

He is the son of a once elite and prominent democrat, Charles Kushner.

Charles Kushner was a New Jersey real-estate titan before pleading guilty to 18 counts of tax evasion, illegal campaign donations, and witness tampering more than a decade ago, according to Vanity Fair.

He also was a top political donor for many years to Democratic candidates such as Bill and Hillary Clinton.

Joshua Kushner has not previously been openly unsupportive of his brother's role in the Trump Administration.

Jared Kushner, an advisor in Trump's administration, is pictured with Ivanka Trump. Kushner's family has a complicated political presence, prompting questions to his ties to the Trump presidency