Heat from Earth's core drives the tectonic plates
They have the power to shape continents and create and destroy cities.

Now, researchers have solved the mystery of how the Earth's tectonic plates are powered.

Researchers say heat from deep in the planet's core drives the movement of the megaplates, in a find that could revolutionise earthquake predictions.

Scroll down for video

Researchers say heat from deep in the planet's core drives the movement of the gigantic tectonic plates, in a find that could revolutionise earthquake predictions.

The new findings also challenge the theory that underwater mountain ranges known as mid-ocean ridges are passive boundaries between moving plates.

The findings show the East Pacific Rise, the Earth's dominant mid-ocean ridge, is dynamic as heat is transferred.

'We see strong support for significant deep mantle contributions of heat-to-plate dynamics in the Pacific hemisphere,' said David Rowley, professor of geophysical sciences at the University of Chicago, who led the research.

'The implication of our work is that textbooks will need to be rewritten'.

His team came to the conclusions by combining observations of the East Pacific Rise with insights from modeling of the mantle flow there.

'Based on our models of mantle convection, the mantle may be removing as much as half of Earth's total convective heat budget from the core,' Rowley said.

WHAT ARE TECTONIC PLATES? Tectonic plates are composed of Earth's crust and the uppermost portion of the mantle. Below is the asthenosphere: the warm, viscous conveyor belt of rock on which tectonic plates ride. The Earth has fifteen tectonic plates (pictured) that together have molded the shape of the landscape we see around us today Earthquakes typically occur at the boundaries of tectonic plates, where one plate dips below another, thrusts another upward, or where plate edges scrape alongside each other. Earthquakes rarely occur in the middle of plates, but they can happen when ancient faults or rifts far below the surface reactivate. These areas are relatively weak compared to the surrounding plate, and can easily slip and cause an earthquake.

'Heat from the base of the mantle contributes significantly to the strength of the flow of heat in the mantle and to the resultant plate tectonics.'

The researchers estimate up to approximately 50 percent of plate dynamics are driven by heat from the Earth's core and as much as 20 terawatts of heat flow between the core and the mantle.

'The consequences of this research are very important for all scientists working on the dynamics of the Earth, including plate tectonics, seismic activity and volcanism,' said Jean Braun of the German Research Centre for Geosciences, who was not involved in the research.

The research could have broader implications for understanding the formation of the Earth, Braun said.

The most recent supercontinent, Pangea (Greek for 'All Lands'), formed about 300 million years ago with Africa at its centre

'It has important consequences for the thermal budget of the Earth and the so-called 'secular cooling' of the core.

'If heat coming from the core is more important than we thought, this implies that the total heat originally stored in the core is much larger than we thought.

'Also, the magnetic field of the Earth is generated by flow in the liquid core, so the findings of Rowley and co-authors are likely to have implications for our understanding of the existence, character and amplitude of the Earth's magnetic field and its evolution through geological time,' Braun added.

THE NEXT SUPERCONTINENT Researchers have predicted that a new megacontinent - Amasia - will form in the next 250 million years. North and South America will crunch together, with the Caribbean Sea and Arctic Ocean disappearing, while Asia will join the Americas, according to new simulations from Yale University researchers and Japan's Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology. North and South America will crunch together, with the Caribbean Sea and Arctic Ocean disappearing, while Asia will join the Americas This will happen because of the movement of the earth's tectonic plates - the enormous plates of the earth's crust that have drifted together and apart over hundreds and millions of years. The research, published in the journal Nature, is based on a theory called Orthoversion - after a supercontinent breaks up, the continents initially drift apart but become trapped within a north–south band of subduction – where one plate dips below another. On our present-day Earth this band is the Pacific Ring of Fire, where the new supercontinent will form. To test the model, researchers used paleomagnetic data – records of the Earth's magnetic field preserved in rocks – to study variations in the rotation of the Earth with respect to its spin axis. The research is based on a theory called Orthoversion - after a supercontinent breaks up, the continents initially drift apart but become trapped within a north–south band of subduction – where one plate dips below another. On our present-day Earth this band is the Pacific Ring of Fire, where the new supercontinent will form

The research has also been supported by a paper published in the journal Geology by Dr Masaki Yoshida, a geologist based at Japan's Agency for Marine–Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC).

The most recent supercontinent, Pangea (Greek for 'All Lands'), formed about 300 million years ago with Africa at its centre.

It began breaking apart into the seven continents of today with the birth of the Atlantic Ocean about 100 million years later.

Researchers believe Pangea is the third or fourth supercontinent in Earth's history.

Its immediate predecessors were Rodinia - which formed about 1 billion years ago - and Nuna, which formed about 1.8 billion years ago.

The idea of continental drift was introduced by German scientist Alfred Wegener in 1912, to explain how the shape of Earth's countries looked suspiciously like jigsaw pieces that would fit together.

The Earth's surface is formed from seven major and several minor tectonic plates that wander around at speeds varying from a few millimetres to two centimetres a year, the same pace that a human nail grows.