Eddie Jones excited by appointment of Dr Sherylle Calder
Few rugby fans will know her name but the testimonies to Sherylle Calder – aka the Eye Lady – read like a who's who of the great and the good of world sport.

England's World Cup winning coach Sir Clive Woodward, former Pakistan opening batsman Saeed Anwar and South Africa's four-time major winning golfer Ernie Els are just a few of the sporting giants who pay tribute to Calder's work on her personal website.

Calder - who re-joined England's backroom staff as visual awareness coach last week 13 years after being a central figure in Woodward's coaching team that helped lift the Webb Ellis trophy in 2003 – has been given a brief by Eddie Jones to improve the peripheral vision of England's three-quarters and will begin work in Portugal this week.

The RFU have announced the appointment of Dr Sherylle Calder as a visual awareness coach

England coach Eddie Jones speaks to the media during a press conference on Saturday

Having seen her work at first hand when working as a coaching consultant with South Africa when they won the World Cup under Jake White in 2007, England's current head coach is in no doubt she can transform his player's visual skills in the same way she improved Springbok legend Bryan Habana's.

'I saw the influence she had on Bryan Habana,' Jones said. 'If you remember the 2007 World Cup he was freakish in his interceptions because every day he worked 15 to 20 minutes at the end of the session with Sherylle. Just on catching the ball, predicting the flight of the ball.

'I remember the try he scored against Argentina in the semi-final – an interception try – he just picked it off brilliantly and he did that consistently and you never saw that from him again.

'One of the reasons was that he didn't work with Sherylle again. Sherylle gives this specific focus. You saw it with the England side in 2003 – the same thing. She is very good at that area and for our guys and our back field guys particularly she will help them enormously.'

South African Calder has also worked with Premiership football team Bournemouth, the South African hockey and Davis Cup teams, the All Blacks and the Australian cricket team, making her one of the most travelled and experienced figures in sport.

Bryan Habana scores a try against Argentina during the World Cup semi-final in 2007

Her work aims to improve player's judgement of where the ball is, as well as the line, length and angle on which it is travelling.

'I only needed one session with Dr Calder to realise that my eye muscles were like any other muscle in my body, they can fatigue very easily,' England's World Cup winning scrum half Matt Dawson said after working with her.

'I not only improved my vision but also my visual endurance. I am now seeing situations from scrum-half much more clearly and equally importantly, recognising them quicker, enabling me to be on top of my game.'

Calder has previously been described as 'arguably the most successful person involved in sport anywhere in the world'.

Dr Calder was a part of Sir Clive Woodward's victorious side in the 2003 Rugby World Cup

Her initial work with the England rugby team will primarily involve the back five players, although this could broaden out to the forwards in the future.

Jones added: 'She has already been told who she is working with. She will work with all the backs but predominantly the back field guys. Marland Yarde, Anthony Watson, Jack Nowell, definitely Jonny May – he is going to live with her. Mike Brown – particularly the back field guys.

'Maybe going forward she'll work with the forwards but not now. The key focus is the set piece. They are going to be scrumming.

'It is consistency – it takes time like anything in life. The more the players do it (work with Calder) the better they will get – it is quite exciting for the players.'