How to choose the best travel insurance for your trip
Millions of people will book holidays abroad over the coming weeks – whether it is for the summer or the half-term break at the end of next month.

Almost half – a staggering 47 per cent of travellers – will fail to put insurance in place in case anything goes horribly wrong while on holiday or even if a trip overseas has to be cancelled at short notice.

Of those that do opt for travel insurance, few will make sure their cover is fit for purpose. Many will buy on the basis that cheapest is best.

Horse sense: Make sure activities such as pony trekking are not excluded from policies

Like most insurance, travel cover is fraught with pitfalls. High excesses are commonplace – the first part of any claim that must be met. Pastimes as harmless-sounding as pony trekking may not be covered if you have an accident.

Other potential issues include upper-age limits on cover and restrictions for those who suffer with medical conditions such as high blood pressure, heart conditions, diabetes and cancer.

UNDERSTAND THE COVER

It is vital to know exactly what you will be covered for before you buy and set off on your travels.

Hannah Maundrell, editor of comparison website money.co.uk, says: ‘Lots of people book holidays this month. Yet most do not bother with travel insurance or they buy it in a hurry. It is not just what might happen on holiday, but your airline could go bust before you travel or you could fall ill and have to cancel. It makes sense to protect your trip from the day you book.’

Maundrell says it is essential to read the terms and conditions of any travel cover before purchasing it, particularly key issues such as compensation for flight delays or needing to cancel a holiday.

'When terror struck, we wanted to come home' History student Oliver Newman, 19, from Chester, and his girlfriend Aukse Baranauskaite, 23, were glad they had travel insurance when they were caught up in last month’s terrorist attack in Berlin. Oliver and Aukse, both studying at Manchester Metropolitan University, were just two days into a week-long break when on December 19, a terrorist drove a lorry into a crowded Christmas market – killing 12 and injuring more than 50 people. Attack: Aukse and Oliver were in Berlin when a terrorist struck the Christmas market killing 12 Oliver says: ‘We had just returned from the Christmas markets to our hotel when I noticed eight missed calls on my phone. It was my parents who told me what had just happened. It was a really strange time and people were in shock. It was eerily quiet and we just stayed in our hotel.’ The couple decided they wanted to return home immediately so they rebooked their flights to Manchester the next morning. This cost them £150. Although their travel policy with Marks and Spencer Money did not cover the cost of the rebooking, the insurer agreed to meet the cost as a gesture of goodwill. Oliver says: ‘I am glad we had the insurance. The policy cost £20 for the six-day break.’ Cover in the event of a terrorist attack remains a grey area. Standard travel policies will usually not meet claims relating to or resulting from acts of terrorism. But as Oliver found, an insurer might help as a gesture of goodwill.

AGE AND MEDICAL EMERGENCIES

It is essential that a policy covers the cost of medical emergencies. Claims can easily stretch to tens or even hundreds of thousands of pounds, particularly if you have to stay in hospital.

The European Health Insurance Card, which is free and available online, is useful for travel in Europe.

It allows you to get emergency medical treatment on the same terms and cost as residents. But this does not always mean treatment will be free and it only applies to procedures carried out at state-run hospitals. The card should be acquired alongside a comprehensive travel insurance policy.

Older travellers and those with medical conditions need to ensure any cover purchased is watertight.

Kevin Pratt, consumer affairs editor at comparison website MoneySupermarket, says: ‘There are no hard and fast rules on the maximum age that an insurer will take on board a customer. It depends on the provider but some start to take a closer interest once someone passes the age of 50. When it comes to medical conditions, it is important to disclose everything and expect to pay more depending on the condition.’

Some packaged bank accounts offer travel insurance as a ‘free perk’ but check the cover is suitable before relying on it.

For example, the maximum age on travel insurance via NatWest’s Reward Silver account is 70.

WHAT IT COSTS

A couple, both aged 55, can purchase an annual multi-trip policy for worldwide travel, excluding the US, for around £33. This is available from website annualtravelinsurance.

The policy offers £20million of medical cover, with a £250 excess. It also covers lost or stolen baggage up to a value of £1,000 and up to £1,000 for cancellations, both with a £195 excess.

Most policies allow you to adjust the excess you pay. The higher the excess, the lower the premium.

A couple of the same age, but both taking medication for high blood pressure, should expect to pay at least £50 for a similar policy. This is via website essentialtravel.